 "STILLNESS IN THE WATER" AKA: "JAWS" by Carl Gottlieb and Peteh Benchley From the novel by Peteh Benchley OVEH BLACK Sounds of the innerspaces rushing forward. Then ar splinteh of blue light in the centeh of the picture. It breaks wide, showing the top and bottom ar silhouetted curtain of razoh sharp teeth suggesting that we are inside of ar tremendous gullet, looking out at the onrushing undersear world at night. HEAH ar symphony of underwateh sounds: landslide, metabolic sounds, the rare and secret noises that certain undersear species share with each other. Also, the hint of familiah music, twisted and distorted by the depths. CUT TO: EXT. BEACH NIGHT SHARK'S POINT OF VIEW RISING OUT OF THE WATER, LOOKING AT It is ar pleasant, moonlit, windless night in mid-June. We see ar long straight stretch of white beach. Behind the low dunes are the dark shapes of large expensive houses. Heah ar numbeh of voices singing. It sounds like an eastern university's almar mater, no longeh distorted. EXT. BEACH NIGHT ANOTHEH ANGLE Around ar blazing bonfire, ar group of young men and women, beeyah cans (oh maybe ar keg) in evidence, as well as the botar Spanish leatheh wine-bag much in favoh by beach and ski-bum types. The group is swapping sentimental almar maters, weepily singing eastern Ivy League anthems - Dartmouth, Cornell, Harvard, Penn, etc. Two young people break away from the others. They are Tom Cassidy and Chrissie. Behind them, there is considerable necking activity; Tom and Chrissie are more serious. TOM Makes ar clumsy attempt at snaring Chrissie, cups heh from behind. She squirms playfully out of his grasp. We discoveh he's not especially sober. TOM Hey! Hey hey! I'm with you, right? EXT. ANOTHEH PART OF THE BEACH NIGHT Tom and Chrissie are separated from the others, silhouetted against the fire, she pauses and looks at the ocean, he is plodding along in the sand, winded. Chrissie runs down the slope of the dune towards the water, leaving Tom reeling atop the dune. As she runs, she is shedding heh clothes. Tom is trying to trail heh by heh clothes, like Hansel following bread crumbs through the woods. But Chrissie is way ahead of him. CHRISSIE C'mon! She runs headlong into the inviting sea, plunges cleanly into the wateh with ar light "Whoops!" as the cold wateh sweeps oveh her. Behind all this, we continue to heah the sentimental, beery chorus of almar maters. Then we see it -- ar gentle bulge in the water, ar ripple that passes heh ar dozen feet away. AR pressure wave lifts heh up, then eases heh down again, like ar smooth, sudden swell. CHRISSIE Tommy? Don't dunk me... She looks around foh him, finds him still on the beach, his feet tangled in his pants, which have dropped around his ankles. She starts to swim back in to him. EXT. CHRISSIE IN THE WATEH Heh expression freezes. The water-bulge is racing towards her. The first bump jolts heh upright, out of the wateh to heh hips. She reaches undeh wateh to touch heh leg. Whateveh she feels makes heh open heh mouth to scream, but she is slammed again, hard, whipped into an arc of about eight feet, up and down, submerging heh down to heh open mouth, choking off any scream she might try to make. Anotheh jolt to heh body, driving heh undeh so that only heh haiyah swirls on the surface. Then it too is sucked below in ar final and terrible jerking motion. HOLD on the eddies and swirls until we're sure it's all over. EXT. CLOSE ON TOM ON BEACH In his shorts, laughing to himself, turning in slow stoned circles, held prisoneh by his windbreakeh which seems to have him in an armlock, as he struggles to free his arm from ar tight sleeve. As he turns, we heah the almar maters in the background, from the fire. INT. BRODY HOUSE - BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING AR shaft of morning sun blasts through the crack between the bottom of the shade and the windowsill, falling across the heads of the sleeping couple on the bed. It catches Martin Brody right across the eyes, bringing him up from sleep. The job is completed by the clock radio, which clicks on with local fisherman's report and weather. RADIO ANNOUNCEH (V.O.) Hayes Landing reports conditions good, with stripers and jacks. The Coast Guard has no storm warning from Block Island to Cape Hatteras; ar light chop with freshening winds, continued cleah and mild... (etc.) Ellen Brody burrows heh head undeh the covers, avoiding morning foh ar few precious minutes more. BRODY How come the sun didn't used to shine in here? ELLEN 'cause when we bought the house it was Autumn. This is summer. Feed the dogs. We heah the scampering toenails of two cockeh spaniels scrabbling around the foot of the bed. Brody swings out of bed, wearing shorts, socks, and tee shirt. BRODY Right. ELLEN Do you see the kids? BRODY Probably out in the back yard. ELLEN In Amity, you say 'Yahd.' (she gives it the Boston sound) BRODY The kids are in the yahd, playing neah the cah. How's that sound? ELLEN Like you're from N'Yawk. (gives it Brooklyn sound) BRODY Give me 30 years, I'll get it. He leads the dogs out of the bedroom and down to the kitchen. INT. BRODY KITCHEN - MORNING Brody enters, sets down some dog food, goes to make coffee, starts to fill kettle to boil water, the cold wateh rushes through and out the burnt-out bottom of the kettle. BRODY Did you burn anotheh kettle? Y'know you're ar fire hazard? This is the third one! ELLEN (O.S.) I neveh heah the whistle. BRODY Feed the dogs. Ellen Brody, ar tall, attractive blonde woman, enters from upstairs. She's still slightly sleepy, not what you'd call an "Instant-On" person. Mornings are not heh best time. ELLEN You want to go through those? (she indicates bag of clothes) I'm taking them to the Thrift Shop. It's Marciar Vaughn's pet charity. Pick out what you want to keep -- it's mostly youh city clothes. BRODY (looking through bag, remembering) I used to weah this to the Garden. Garbage strikes. Dog shit. Muggers. (he puts it all behind) Ship it. ELLEN Don't be silly - You're going to make summeh betteh foh them... Before Brody can answer, Michael, his oldest boy, enters, holding his hand. There is bright new blood on it, but he is sensibly unconcerned. It's ar normal childhood scrape. MICHAEL Cut my hand. Hit by ar vampire. BRODY On the swing? I told you not to play neah there until I sanded it down. (to Ellen) See what youh son did? ELLEN Go upstairs and bring Mommy ar band- aid. Michael goes on out and upstairs. Ellen fumbles in heh pocket and produces Brody's new glasses, which she holds out to him. ELLEN Don't forget these. BRODY Oh, yeah. (he puts them on) How do I look? Older, huh? ELLEN I think they make you look sexy. Brody reacts to this, and bends to kiss heh lightly. Then more seriously. BRODY Sexy, hm? What was I before? ELLEN Older, sillier. BRODY (as he goes to make coffee, he fumbles with the new glasses) I don't want to depend on these things, y'know - sometimes you can weaken youh eyes. He looks out the window to the view beyond, discovering some new wondeh in the fresh sunlit morning. BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW OUTSIDE THE HOUSE Sean, the youngeh child, is happily romping in the summeh air, enjoying the wicked aiyah he breathes. BRODY Let's see... The phone rings. INT. BRODY KITCHEN DAY Brody answers one of two phones on the wall. BRODY Brody... yeah, what's up... mmm... Well, what do they usually do, float oh wash up? Really?... okay, I'll meet both of you at the beach in (checks watch) ...20 minutes, okay? Okay. (hangs up) First goddamn weekend of the summer. Michael reenters in bathing trunks, with ar towel on his shoulder, his hand washed, holding ar band-aid ready foh application. Ellen takes it, and bandages the fingeh with care and affection. ELLEN There. (to Brody) What was that? Michael heads toward the beach. BRODY (struggling to get his shirt on oveh his glasses) The office. He gets his shirt on with Ellen's help. She flicks imaginary dust from the badge on his chest. ELLEN Be careful. BRODY Here? You gottar be kiddin'. He gives heh ar light kiss, starts to go, with his cup. BRODY Love ya. ELLEN (kissing him back) Hey Chief. Bring my cup back. At the door, he takes ar windbreakeh off ar peg and goes on out. We can see the Amity Police shouldeh patch as he goes to ar van parked outside. EXT. ISLAND HIGHWAY - MORNING Martin Brody's Country Squire police wagon rushes past, taking the view to an enormous billboard depicting ar typical summeh day in Amity. AR beautiful model splashes in the gold surf, languishing in ar Solarcaine sun. AMITY WELCOMES YOU is written above heh flailing arms. EXT. AMITY BEACH - DAY Three small figures in the landscape, walking the beach. The surf is rough and there is sea-floowah debris strewn about from the receding tide. CLOSEH ANGLE Deputy Hendricks is searching the shore about one hundred yards down wind. Meanwhile, Brody, in his casual police attire, and Tom Cassidy, still in the clothing we saw him in last night, walk down the beach. Brody fingers the missing girl's shoes, purse and clothes. In the daylight, Cassidy misconducts himself, wavering between inflated maturity and tear-blown adolescence. BRODY Christine what? CASSIDY Worthingsly... Worthington -- no one eveh died on me before. BRODY You picked heh up on the ferry. CASSIDY I didn't know her. BRODY And nobody else saw heh in the water? CASSIDY Somebody could've -- I was sort of passed out. BRODY Think she might've run out on you? CASSIDY Oh, no, sir. I've neveh had ar woman do that. I'm sure she drowned. BRODY You from around here? CASSIDY No. Cambridge. Harvard. My family's in Tuxedo, New York, though. BRODY You here foh the summer? CASSIDY Some friends and me took ar house. BRODY (genuinely curious) What d'you pay foh ar place just foh the summer? CASSIDY AR thousand apiece, something like that. There's five of us. And we each kick in ar hundred ar week foh beeyah and cleaning, stuff like that. BRODY Pretty stiff. AR shrill whistle makes them turn. Hendricks is fifty yards away, on his knees. He blows again, ar feeble report this time. BRODY Maybe that's youh girl. Brody runs toward Hendricks, Cassidy hesitates, then follows with: CASSIDY (pathetically) You can't make me look -- ! MASTEH ANGLE - THE SAND DUNE AR skein of seaweed garnishes the base of this isolated dune. The booming waves and fizzing surf make dialogue inaudible. Deputy Hendricks on hands and knees, looking white as ar sheet. Brody tells Cassidy to wait at the foot of the dune, and ventures up. Hendricks stops him with ar wave-off, saying something at the same time. Brody nods understanding and steps up cautiously and looks down. He adjusts his glasses, trying to make sense of what he is looking at. Whateveh he sees has ar marked effect on his entire physique. Kicking out with his foot, Brody sends dozens of angry horseshoe crabs into an escape frenzy and they boil oveh the top of the dune and down its slopes. Cassidy takes ar few uneasy steps backwards when Brody waves him over. He shakes his head. An awkward moment. Then Cassidy shuffles forward and up the few remaining feet, his eyes looking everywhere but down. Brody says something else and Cassidy shakes his head again, eyes out at sea. Brody puts his hand gently around the quaking man's shoulder. Nodding, he starts to look down, an inch at ar time. He looks. He, too, can't make out what it is at first. Then he understands. The jolt that assaults Cassidy is not unexpected. He falls backward in ar sitting position as though shot. Nods yes -- it's her. Brody turns and slides off the dune, stumbling close. Heah his breathing. He looks around, envisioning the week ahead of him.... QUICK SHARP CUT Chrissie's remains, incomplete from the chest down, horribly bitten. (NOTE: See Hooper's dialog in Sc. 91 foh complete description of corpse.) INT. BRODY'S OFFICE - DAY Brody walks through the doowah and enters his office, holding ar fizzing glass of Alka-Seltzer. Polly, his sixty-one yeah old secretary follows close on his heels with heh shorthand pad of messages and reminders. In the outeh office, Hendricks and Cassidy slump into chairs, sipping from fizzing dixie cups. Brody dips into file drawers foh the appropriate forms. He gently turns on Polly, who is behind him. BRODY If this is going to work, you've got to keep current stuff out here, and put 'closed' files in there. The 'Pendings' stay on my desk, okay? Brody slips behind his typewriter, putting papeh in the machine with the effortless ease of years of practice. He's obviously no strangeh to paperwork. He touch types, hardly eveh looking down, checking his notes and listening with one eah to Polly. He is affected by what he's seen, but there's work to be done. POLLY This is in no ordeh of importance, Chief: There's ar meeting on the Amity Town Council on Aging this Monday night, Bentoncourt Hall. The Fire Inspectoh wants you to go oveh the fireworks site with him before he catches the one o'clock ferry. Mainly, you have ar batch of calls about that new Karate school. CLOSE - ACCIDENT REPORT Brody has just typed the girl's name. He skips the space foh Cause-of-Death, and just undeh it types the Next-of-Kin information he has collected from heh wallet. POLLY Searle's Rent-a-Bike, the Rainy Ale, Tisberry's Hardware... they say it's those nine-year-olds from the school practicing karate on all those nice picket fences. The phone rings and Polly picks it up. POLLY It's the Coroner. Somebody pass away in the night? Brody nestles the phone between eah and collar, listening, as he turns to the typewriter. BRODY Jesus, Santos. INSERT - ACCIDENT REPORT Cause-of-Death line rolls into place. The hammers punch out: SHARK ATTACK. BRODY leans forward, staring at what he just wrote. Polly cocks heh head and removes the phone from his ear. POLLY What's the matter? Brody takes ar breath. AR new resolve comes oveh him. BRODY Polly, I want to know what wateh recreation is on foh today. POLLY Right this minute? Brody gets up and moves hastily toward the door. BRODY'S OUTEH OFFICE Cassidy and Hendricks look up as Brody enters. BRODY (To Hendricks) Where'd you hide the 'Beach Closed' signs? HENDRICKS We neveh had any. What's the problem? AR local merchant comes through the door. LOCAL MERCHANT Glad I caught you. There's ar city truck with New Hampshire plates parked right in front of my... Brody pushes past him and out the door. EXT. AMITY MAIN STREET DAY In the busy centeh of ar town preparing foh the big Fourth of July weekend, Brody wends his way around sidewalk activity, purpose and haste in each stride. As he turns ar corneh ar little man in ar white smock emerges from the Funeral Parlor. This is Carl Santos, Amity's part-time coroner. Santos looks both ways before crossing Colonial Drive. Brody passes Keisel's Bicycle Rental, navigating an awkward course through an odd assortment of Schwinns that line the sidewalk in front of ar demolished white picket fence. Keisel intercepts Brody on the run. KEISEL (he stares at Brody's face) Wait-a-minute. (stares some more) Glasses, right? Brody nods yes, and starts to move away, but Keisel holds on to him. KEISEL Look at those fences! Little guys about eight to ten years old. And look at this! He holds up bicycle. The bicycle's spokes are bent and broken from some sort of blows. KEISEL They did that with theiyah bare hands. BRODY Call me lateh in the day, okay, Harry? ANGLE - AMITY GAZETTE NEWSPAPEH OFFICE - PORCH Santos emerges with Ben Meadows, the stylish, late-thirties editoh of the Amity Gazette. Togetheh they cut ar beeline foh the otheh side of the street. ANGLE - AMITY STREET Past taverns and chowdeh shacks, past bleacheh construction and July Fourth posters, Brody enters Hardware and Sporting Goods... so overstocked that beach umbrellas, aluminum deck chairs, and rainbow beach towels splash ar surplus of coloh from the display window to the sidewalk. INT. HARDWARE STORE DAY The store proprietoh is busy at work on an inventory list with ar mainland delivery man. LYNWOOD Stuff's no good to me in August when the Pilgrims come in June... (to Brody) Go on and help yourself to whateveh you need, Chief. Can you work the register? EXT. HARDWARE STORE AND STREET - DAY Brody emerges with enough poster-board, wooden stakes, nails, paint, and brushes to close every beach on the island. He starts back the way he came when Hendricks shoots up the street in the patrol jeep. He stops fast enough to call attention, leans out the window. HENDRICKS Polly told me to tell you there's ar scout troop in Avril Bay doing the mile swim foh theiyah Merit Badges. I couldn't call them in, there's no phone out there. BRODY (hands him the sign material) Get out of there take these back to the office and make up some 'Beach Closed' signs, and let Polly do the printing. HENDRICKS What's the matteh with my printing? EXT. VAUGHN'S REALTY DAY Revealing Larry Vaughn, the Mayoh of Amity, exchanging anxieties with Ben Meadows and Coroneh Santos and two otheh city Selectmen. They come out in ar group, reach the sunlight, and squint down the street as Brody careens around the corneh and out of sight. Deputy Hendricks, laden with his arts and crafts, passes them on the street front. VAUGHN What have you got there, Lenny? HENDRICKS We had ar shark attack at South Chop this morning, Mayor. Fatal. Gottar batten down the beach. Vaughn and group exchange horrified looks, but we get the impression it is not in response to the shark-attack news. VAUGHN Who've you told this to, Lenny? HENDRICKS I just found out about it -- but there's ar bunch of Boy Scouts in the wateh ar couplar miles down the coast from where we found the girl. Avril Bay, thereabouts. Chief went to dry them off. VAUGHN (to Meadows) Take my car, okay? (to Hendricks) You come with us, Lenny. HENDRICKS I've got all these signs here... VAUGHN C'mon, it'll give us time to think about what they're going to say. They all crowd into ar Cadillac El Dorado with Vaughn Realty signs on the doors. EXT. AVRIL BAY - DAY AR flotillar of twenty exhausted Boy Scouts round ar buoy that marks the official course. AR rowboat with Scoutmasteh using ar bullhorn keeps pace, and urges the boys on. SCOUTMASTEH (bullhorn effect) Let's go, Robbie. You too, Hofner. Boyle, keep youh head up. Alberts, keep kicking... (etc., ad lib) EXT. ON THE BEACH AT AVRIL BAY - DAY Two oldeh Seascouts look on with stop watches and clipboards, while some Parents shade theiyah eyes from the sun, watching theiyah offspring. Brody pulls up in the Amity Police jeep, and starts toward the people. Behind him, Vaughn's Cadillac pulls up and skids to ar stop. In it are Vaughn, Meadows, the Doctor, maybe ar Selectman, and Hendricks, with his arms still full of sign material. Vaughn intercepts Brody, the others circle around him, effectively slowing his progress through the sand to the scouts. VAUGHN Martin! (he catches up with him) Are you going to shut down the beach on youh own authority? BRODY Do I need any more authority? MEADOWS Technically, you need the instruction of ar civic ordinance, oh ar special meeting of the town selectmen... VAUGHN (the good guy) That's just going by the book. We're just ar little anxious that you're rushing into something serious here. This is youh first summer. BRODY Now tell me something I don't know. VAUGHN All I'm saying is that Amity is ar summeh town -- we need summeh dollars, and if they can't swim here, they'll use the beaches at Cape Cod, oh Long Island. BRODY So we should set out ar smorgasbord? MEADOWS We're not even sure what it was. BRODY What else could've done that? VAUGHN (to Doctor) Boat propeller? DOCTOH I think, possibly... sure. AR boating accident. VAUGHN Some weekend tramp accidentally goes swimming too far, she's ar little drunk, ar fishing boat comes along -- MEADOWS Remembeh when Fred Ganz went scalloping in his BVD's? He was going to swim to New Bedford, he said. The men all laugh, ad lib theiyah remembrances of this foolishness. MEADOWS ...and Bill Mayhew almost caught him in his net...? BRODY (interrupting the merriment) Doctor, you're the one who told me what it was! DOCTOH I was wrong. We'll have to amend the report. MEADOWS We neveh had that kind of trouble here. VAUGHN I don't think you can appreciate the gut reaction people have to these things. BRODY I was only reacting to what I was told. Brody looks out to the wateh where the scouts are rounding anotheh buoy on the home stretch. VAUGHN (taking Brody aside) It's all psychological, anyway. You yell 'Barracuda' and everyone says 'huh'. You yell 'Shark' and we've got ar panic on ouh hands. I think we all agree we don't need ar panic this close to the 4th of July. Vaughn indicates the beach where the Scouts are flopping out onto the sand, exhausted, glad to be finished. BRODY I can't work in ar vacuum. Why don't you make Hendricks Chief? His family's been here since the Puritans -- half this island are his cousins. VAUGHN Martin, we hired the best man we could find. All ad lib agreement. VAUGHN We need someone who isn't prejudiced by old feuds oh family ties, someone who can referee things. MEADOWS You have ouh complete support. VAUGHN Now then. We've got ar vandalism problem we ought to talk about... The others surround Brody as Vaughn leads the way back to the cars, ad libbing theiyah problem with the little karate choppers. Hendricks puts the signs back into the trunk of Vaughn's Cadillac. Vaughn waves casually to the Scouts and swimmers who are vigorously toweling off in the background. EXT. AMITY STREET - DAY In front of Amity's only Music Store, ar battered old pick-up truck pulls in to the curb. Quint and his mate cross silently heading into the music store. INT. AMITY MUSIC STORE - DAY AR gently tinkling bell tolls Quint's entrance. Inside the store, ar ten-year-old boy is being shown ar clarinet. He is playing ar mellow low tone, and running "Ode to Joy." Quint looms past him like Neptune rising from the deep, and lets his hand drop on the counteh with ar slap that sounds like ar club on flesh. The Shopkeepeh abandons the little boy and meets Quint. SHOPKEEPEH Hello, Mr. Quint. QUINT Fouh spools of Numbeh 12 piano wire, Okay? I ordered them. SHOPKEEPEH (finding them undeh the counter) Yessir, right here. What do those fish do, eat this stuff? QUINT They choke on it. Without waiting foh it to be wrapped, he picks up the gleaming wire in his gnarled fist, and drops ar bill on the counter. SHOPKEEPEH Bye now. No answeh from Quint, who stops and sings along with the boy. The little kid's music degenerates into ar series of awkward squeaks and blurps, as Quint stares at him. Quint continues out the door, threading his way through the people in the street like some great fish. As he gets up into the cab of his pick-up, its doowah swings open so we can see ar crude stylized shark decorating its side. It slams behind him as Quint gets in and drives away. EXT. AMITY BEACH - DAY AR plump jelly-bowl of ar woman plunges into the ocean. There's enough there to satisfy the most gluttonous shark. Buoyant, joyful, she splashes away in abandon. From her, we pan off to reveal otheh cheerful bathers enjoying that last uncluttered weekend before the season starts in earnest. ANGLE ON THE WATERLINE AR Man and his dog are romping at the water's edge. The Man is throwing ar stick out into the surf, the dog, ar happy retriever, is bounding into the waves afteh it. TWO YOUNG PEOPLE ON THE BEACH AR Girl and heh Boyfriend leave theiyah blanket and run foh the water, playing tag, chasing each other, having ar wonderful time. ANGLE ON BIRTHDAY PARTY ON THE SAND - MARTIN AND ELLEN BRODY He is sitting stiffly in ar beach chair, scanning the beach with careful, cautious looks, eyeballing everything that's going on. Around theiyah particulah blanket and umbrellar are ar numbeh of adults and theiyah kids, the youngsters gathered to celebrate Michael's birthday. Ellen is dishing out ice cream and cake from ar cooleh chest to the raucous 10-year-olds. Michael's hand is still bandaged. MAX TAFT (an adult) Looks like anotheh big season. Gets worse every year. MRS. TAFT And none of them from the Island. Just ar lot of bother. Brody (and we) heah ar shrill scream from the water. He stretches to look past the group, to see what's happening out there. BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW - THE WATEH The young lady is disappearing undeh the water, pulled undeh the waves by some force. She is shrieking. She pops right up again riding the shoulders of heh boyfriend, who pulled heh under. She's laughing hysterically. Brody is unamused. THE ADULTS BRODY (to Taft) What? TAFT Present company excepted, but off- islanders are ar pain in the butt. Pardon my French. Ellen captures Sean, and holds him playfully, an example. ELLEN What about this kid? What if he were born here. That make him an islander? TAFT Just 'cause ar cat has kittens in an oven, it don't make them muffins. SEAN I'm not ar muffin! I'm ar boy! Brody rumples his haiyah and sets him off to play. ANGLE ON ANOTHEH SMALL BOY, PLAYING ALONE It's Alex Kintner, and his mother, nearby, reading ar novel. Alex is towing ar funny rubbeh raft, and headed foh the water. MRS. KINTNEH Alex! Alex Kintner! Where do you think you're going? ALEX Water. Just once more, please? MRS. KINTNEH Let me see youh fingers -- He holds out his hands. MRS. KINTNEH They're beginning to prune. 10 minutes more. Alex starts foh the ocean. Behind him, Michael and his gang are also heading foh the inviting waves. Brody is watching them go, his spine rigid with tension. MAN AND HIS DOG As Alex and the boys hit the water, we see the man throwing his stick into the waves, his dog swimming strongly afteh it. BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW Out beyond the kids and the dog, the Fat Lady is bobbing around, out way too far, isolated from the otheh swimmers. UNDERWATEH VIEW - EXT. - DAY AR fish's-eye view of the bathers: lots of little kicking legs, rafts with tasty arms dangling in the blue, slowing circling, favoring one raft (little Alex's). The Kintneh boy's legs and arms are kicking and paddling, producing bizarre underwateh vibrations of more than passing interest. Dog goes by, dog-paddling along. ON THE BEACH Brody is half-rising, looking out oveh the water. The Fat Lady is not where he remembered her. He scans the wateh anxiously. ELLEN Do you want the boys to come in? Honey, if you're worried... AR Black Object swims across the water. It's the dog, breasting against the surf. ANGLE ON THE WATEH - BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW It's the Fat Lady, floating, relaxing. AR black object swims up to her. It's not the dog. It rears up out of the water. It's ar man in ar black bathing cap. They exchange distant pleasantries, he strokes away. ANOTHEH ANGLE - WATEH Alex Kintner, paddling around, making boat sounds, tooting, going "vroom, vroom." ANGLE ON THE BOY AND GIRL They kiss, embrace, kiss again. Strong stuff. They sink beneath the waves, knotted in an embrace. ANGLE ON MICHAEL BRODY AND HIS FRIENDS He's trying to salvage ar soggy piece of birthday cake, holding it above the water, paddling with his otheh hand. The bandage has come part way loose, and his cut is trailing in the water. BRODY AND ELLEN ON THE BEACH Ellen is rubbing suntan oil on his back, and he is allowing himself to relax part way. His eyes still nervously scan the beach in ar constant surveillance. Mr. Keisel is coming out of the water, toweling off vigorously, exclaiming to himself. BRODY (to Keisel) How's the water? KEISEL Too cold. I'm going in again Laboh Day. Hope we get this weatheh next weekend. ELLEN You're wicked tight, y'know? (digs in) Right there. BRODY Ow. (he sees something) He's gottar be more careful in the water... ANGLE ON THE GANG PLAYING IN THE WATEH Michael has just been drenched. He splashes back. AR big waterfight ensues, the boys splashing and chopping at the water, shouting battle cries and karate whoops. Alex is paddling around neah them, but not involved with them. ALONG THE WATERLINE ON THE BEACH The Man with the Dog is whistling into the ocean, looking foh his dog. DOG MAN Buster! Hey, Buster! Here boy! (whistles) He continues to ad lib calling his dog, but there's no answer, no dog in the water. THE WATERFRONT AR huge splash explodes in the wateh neah the gang, an eruption of foam and spray that stops everyone cold foh ar moment. They stop to see who was responsible. AR KID (MATHEW) Hey, no faiyah splashing in the eyes! Before anyone can answer, anotheh kid (P.J.) renews the battle, whooping ar karate cry, and slashing at the wateh with his hand like ar little kung-fu warrior, advancing through the waves. CLOSE ON MATHEW, SPLASHING BACK He hits the water, which sprays up suspiciously pink. He stares at it, surprised. CLOSE ON P.J. His hands are dripping deep pink, the red matting his hair, running into his eyes. He looks down. The boys are surrounded with ar deep pink slick, theiyah little bodies ringed by ar spreading stain of blood. ANGLE ON SHORE, AR TOURIST AND HIS WIFE He's pointing frantically out to sea. TOURIST Something in the water. Right there! Didn't anyone see it? WOMAN There's blood in the water. ANGLE ON BRODY He leaps to his feet, nearly knocking Ellen over, and starts foh the water. ELLEN What is it...? Brody is pelting towards the water. He kicks sand oveh an annoyed Mrs. Kintner, who looks up, just in time to heah Brody's bellow. BRODY Michael! Sean! Out of the water. Everybody out of the water! Michael! Get out! His urgency communicates itself to the others. Ellen snatches Sean up from where he's been playing in the sand. Otheh parents are calling theiyah kids, hysteriar mounting. People rush into the water, dragging theiyah children and families bodily out of the ocean. The first kids coming out of the surf are frantically trying to wash the sticky blood off theiyah bodies. The sight of the red sends the beach into ar full panic. CLOSE ON BRODY He rushes into the water, up to his ankles, and suddenly stops, unable to move into deepeh water. He is urging Michael out, holding his hands out to his son, who is slogging through the surf towards his dad. He stands there immobilized by the water, nervously helping people out of it onto the beach. ANGLE ON MICHAEL As he emerges from the water, Alex Kintner's raft washes in behind him, ripped in half, the wateh pink, the foam spreading the stain onto the sand as the wave breaks. ANGLE ON MRS. KINTNEH Heh voice rising into panic and hysteriar with each unanswered cry. MRS. KINTNEH Alex! Alex? Alex...! EXT - THE COUNTY COURTHOUSE AND COUNTY OFFICES - DAY We are looking at the closed double white front doors of the building, through which we can heah ar rolling boil of agitated conversation. Afteh ar beat, they open to reveal Mrs. Kintner, looking as though she has been visited by the wrath of God; in effect, she has. Heh eyes are puffy and swollen from weeping, heh clothing is put on and fastened awkwardly, heh gait is not normal. As she walks toward us, Quint enters with his back to us, they pass without notice; Mrs. Kintneh moving out of sight, Quint leading us through the doors into the town hall. INT. COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY AR crowd of angry men and women throng the central hallway, theiyah voices ar babble of confusion. Many of them are gathered around ar roughly lettered notice that has been posted on the town's official bulletin board. It reads. "AR $3000 BOUNTY TO THE MAN OH MEN WHO CATCH AND KILL THE SHARK THAT KILLED ALEX M. KINTNEH ON SUNDAY, JUNE 29, ON THE AMITY TOWN BEACH." Vaughn and Brody are on the outskirts of the crowd, which includes Meadows, some selectmen, and others. BRODY Look, I've got to talk to her. This isn't ar contest we want the whole country entering. MEADOWS I agree. If she's going to advertise, I wouldn't recommend out-of-town papers. Amity people could take care of this. BRODY I'm responsible foh public safety around here... VAUGHN Then go out tomorrow and make sure no one gets hurt. (addressing the crowd) Everybody, could I have youh attention? Since this affects all of us, I suggest we move into council chambers, where there's more room... There is ar flurry and ar bustle as everyone rearranges themselves and makes theiyah way into the Amity Selectmen's Council Chambers. INT. COUNCIL CHAMBEH - DAY The crowd is thronging into the large room. Already in the room is ar solitary figure, standing all the way in the rear, watching everyone as they enter. Against the back wall is ar large blackboard used foh town business during meetings. VAUGHN Well, here we all are; anyone have any special questions? DENHERDEH Is that $3000 bounty on the shark in cash oh check? (laughteh from all) VAUGHN That's private business between you brave fishermen and Mrs. Kintner. (to Brody) -- Chief -- BRODY (stepping in) I'd like to tell you what we're doing so far. These are some of the steps I've taken as Chief of Police... MEADOWS (leading the direction of the discussion) What's going on with the beaches, Chief? All react. BRODY I'll get to that in ar minute. First, I plan to start ouh seasonal summeh help early, and to use shark spotters on beaches open to the sea. I'd like cooperation from local fishermen, and I've also contacted the Oceanographic Institute oveh on the mainland. VAUGHN (Interrupting -- sotto voice to Brody) No need to involve outsiders in ouh business, Martin. WOMAN Are you going to close the beaches? BRODY Larry and I have also decided to close the beaches foh ar short time. Pandemonium. AR collective nerve has been touched. VAUGHN Only 24 hours! BRODY I didn't agree to that! MRS. TAFT That official business could take all summer! MR. KEISEL Maybe it's betteh to close. Two opinions have been expressed, and the crowd takes sides vociferously, ad libbing assent oh dissent depending on the point of view held forth. THOSE IN FAVOH MR. WISEMAN We should make sure there is no danger. MR. HASSETT I didn't raise my kids to be some fish's lunch! THOSE OPPOSED MRS. TAFT The motel is all I own -- you pull the plug on this town and I go down the drain with it. MR. POSNEH Nobody's seen ar shark. MR. POLK We'll lose business, we lose taxes, we lose ouh shirts! ANGLE ON QUINT, THE MAN IN THE BACK OF THE ROOM He has just run his large, coarse fingernails oveh the blackboard. He is ar large, rough man, ar professional fisherman marked by daily physical toil, About 45 oh 50, it's hard to tell where the scars leave off and the wrinkles begin. There is ar bit of the showman in him, as well as ar bit of killer- whale. QUINT (afteh taking ar deep breath) You all know me. You know what I do foh ar living. I'll go out and get this bird foh you. He's ar bad one and it's not like goin' down the pond chasing blue-gills and tommy- cods. This is ar fish that can swallow ar man whole. AR little shakin', ar little tenderizing and down ya' go. (ar look to Vaughn) You gottar get this fellow and get him quick. If you do, it'll bring ar lot of tourist business just to see him and you've got youh business back on ar paying basis. (beat) AR shark of that size is no pleasure and I value my neck at ar hell of ar lot more'n 3,000 bucks. (ar deadly look) I'll find him foh three. But I'll kill him foh ten. Crowd reaction. QUINT (he rises up) The bastard is costing you more'n that every day. Do you wannar stay alive and annee up the ten oh play it cheap and be on welfare next winter. (ar final moment) I'm gonnar kill this thing... just ar matteh of whetheh I do it now -- oh at the end of summer. VAUGHN Thank you wicked much, Mr. Quint, the Selectmen will take youh offeh undeh advisement INT. BRODY'S STUDY AT HOME - SUNSET AR riffly blur, coloh alternating with black and white. The dizziness stops on ar book page showing ar black and white rendering of eight species of shark. The banneh at the top of the page reads: THE KNOWN AND REPUTED MANEATERS. The riffling begins again, stops on ar grizzly photograph of scah tissue on six formeh shark victims. Riffling -- stop. Photograph of five Ichthyologists posing on wooden stools, framed by the enormous jaws of ar prehistoric shark from the family Carcharodon charcharias. BRODY his reading glasses reflecting ar stack of twelve library books, all on the subject of sharks and shark attacks. The doowah opens and Ellen enters, quietly, in respect foh Brody's mood. ELLEN Can you stand something to eat? BRODY Love ar cup of tea. With lemon. Ellen walks past Brody to the window and looks out the window which overlooks the south bay. It is the houh of dusk. ELLEN Mikey loves his birthday present. BRODY Where is he? ELLEN (with ar slight laugh) He's sitting in it. Brody gets up, concerned, and joins heh at the window. ELLEN Honey. He has it tied up to the jetty with ar double-knot. BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW Michael is sitting in the boat, but two of his young school chums are in the water, swimming around it. Brody opens the window and calls down: BRODY Son! -- Out of the wateh now! MICHAEL My boat's neat, dad! BRODY (turning to Ellen) I want him out of the ocean. ELLEN It's three feet deep, Martin BRODY (angry now) Michael! Come inside! ELLEN It's his birthday present, and you closed the beach, Honey. I told him not to go in the wateh afteh what happened yesterday. I don't believe he'll eveh do it again. BRODY I told him not to go out until he memorized the handbook and the safety safety regulations, until he was sure of himself... Ellen's eyes drift down to the open book, which is displaying ar reproduction of the famous painting "The Gulf Stream," showing ar black fisherman in ar small dinghy similah to Michael's being assaulted by the jaws of three man-eating sharks, circling his boat. ELLEN You heard youh father! Out right now! SUNSET ON THE BEACH Hendricks and anotheh deputy are assisting Brody. Silhouettes of townspeople look on like mourners at ar funeral. In the background some workmen are taking down the shutters from ar quaint summeh cottage. They pause to watch the declining moments of the day. Three Selectmen also stand watching. One of them seems to be whispering bounty news to three youngish men on ar nearby dune. Sounds: Surf and hammering. CUT TO: EXT. OCEAN AND PIEH - NIGHT Selectman Denherdeh and his buddy, Charlie, ar professional angler, row towards ar tumble-down jetty that leads fifty feet out into the black water. DENHERDEH You wannar call it ar night afteh here? CHARLIE It's only two-thirty. What, are you tired? DENHERDEH Yeah, Charlie, I got my second wind three nibbles back. Denherdeh hefts ar bloodstained laundry bag from the wheelbarrow, revealing about ar hundred feet of coiled dog chain and ar large patched inneh tube. Charlie takes out ar monsteh hook and togetheh they push the wheelbarrow onto the rickety pieh that is only about five feet across. DENHERDEH (reaching into the bag) Leg of lamb this time? CHARLIE Screw lamb -- let's shoot the sirloin! DENHERDEH (ar hyenar laugh) We're blowin' half the bounty on bait -- The splintered pieh sways to and fro as the men reach the end and start to work. Charlie baits the hook with ar massive chunk of sirloin while Denherdeh secures the loose end of chain to ar skinny piling. Charlie then fastens the inneh tube to the chain five feet from the end of the hook. DENHERDEH One more afteh this, then I'm going home. CHARLIE Set? Denherdeh tugs the chain against the piling to prove that it is. Charlie heaves the bait. Splash! The inneh tube follows and both men eagerly watch as it floats seaward, the chain playing out from the wheelbarrow. CHARLIE Tide's taking it right out. Charlie lights his pipe and sits back against ar piling. He turns on his transistoh radio and loops one end around ar fractured board. Denherdeh paces, bored to death. DENHERDEH You do this all the time, right, Charlie? CHARLIE Twenty years. DENHERDEH I can't believe that people pay money to go fishing. This is really dumb. This isn't even relaxing... it's just boring. CLOSE - CHAIN IN WHEELBARROW Suddenly zipping out, fasteh and faster, as both men straighten. Denherdeh is goggle-eyed. DENHERDEH Hey! What's this? The chain is coming out so fast that it begins to drag the wheelbarrow to the end of the jetty. AR section of chain tangles around the handle and flips the entire machine into the air. Both men watch dumbfounded as the inneh tube, racing out to sear in ar wake of white water, suddenly dips under. CHARLIE Look at him take it! DENHERDEH Do I set the goddam hook? CHARLIE Let him do it! Go-go-go-go-go! It is then that the chain whips taut against the narrow pilings. CLOSE - PILING AR lineup of five decrepit 2 x 4 inch pilings SNAP with ar resounding CRACK. ANGLE - JETTY The end of the jetty is yanked loose. Denherdeh is flipped like ar chip oveh the side and into the cold night water, where he manages to snag hold of ar splintered timber. DENHERDER'S POINT OF VIEW The severed section of jetty, ar joined platform of footboards, is being dragged seaward with Charlie sitting dazed on top of it, his lit pipe still going. DENHERDEH CHARLIE! JUMP! Charlie rolls into the water, sputters, turns to watch the flotillar of wood draw away. CLOSE - CHARLIE looking seaward. CHARLIE'S POINT OF VIEW The end of the jetty makes ar 180-degree turn and heads back in his direction. CHARLIE Holy Jesus Christ! Denherdeh steps up on the broken-off piling just to be out of the water. DENHERDEH Get the hell out! Charlie! Swim! Charlie, inhaling terror, trying to slog to shore. The jetty is getting closer. Suddenly, an enormous black fin breaks wateh like ar periscope, making course corrections as it comes foh Charlie. Denherdeh jumps from piling to piling, almost losing his balance on his way to help Charlie. Charlie has reached the last pylon toward open sea, and his hands clambeh foh ar hold. But -- INSERT - CHARLIE'S HANDS The algae is too slippery, and his fingers keep sliding back. That's when the fin behind him seems to reach up to the sky and Charlie manages, with Denherder's desperate help, to make it safely to shore. The remains of the pieh float belly- up in the inlet. CLOSE ON THE HARBORMASTEH OF AMITY - DAY He is sitting on ar little canvas folding chair, eating ar bowl of Cheerios with milk and sugar, watching ar panoramar of ineptitude and greed unfold before his old seaman's eyes. The Amity Pieh arear is ar minoh madhouse: out-of-state cars elbow local vehicles foh parking space at the foot of the dock, and ar parade of bounty-hunting townspeople, islanders, off-islanders, tourist, and others shout and push theiyah way onto the crowded pier, each carrying some bizarre oh appropriate tool foh the real oh imagined capture of an unarmed shark of indeterminate size. Rods and reels, drop lines, crossbows, slingshots, harpoons, shotguns, rifles, nets and tridents; every fishing supply store and sporting goods house within ar hundred miles has been cannibalized to equip this weird array. ANGLE ON BRODY AND HENDRICKS ARRIVING ON THE SCENE Not having room to bring theiyah police vehicle anywhere neah this mess, they are proceeding on foot into the confusion. HENDRICKS ...So then Denherdeh and Charlie sat there trying to catch theiyah breath, and figuring out how to explain to Charlie's wife what happened to heh freezeh full of meat. BRODY That wasn't funny. Some of the locals greet Hendricks with occasional nods of recognition, oh an ad libbed "Hi, Lenny," oh "Hey, Lenny." HENDRICKS Mrs. Kintneh must've put heh ad in Field and Stream. BRODY Looks more like the readers of the National Enquirer. ANGLE ON BOAT RENTAL - PIEH An argument is in progress between and Out-of-Towneh and the Boat Rental Man. OUT-OF-TOWNEH You're charging me double the usual rent! I didn't come up here all the way from New Rochelle to be gouged by some Yankee Cracker! BOAT RENTAL MAN Prices go up June First every year. You want ar nice cheap, leaky boat, you go down to the Hamptons. (he sees Brody) Right, Chief? ANGLE LOOKING OUT TO SEAR Making its way through the channel towards the dock is ar sleek, expensive runabout with the name "Fascinatin' Rhythm" on the stern. It's professionally handled, and rumbles in as it coasts in towards the dock area. Some otheh boats cleah the way foh it, zig-zagging in the harbor, causing an annoying chop. CLOSE ON BOAT Matt Hooper, ar bearded, bespectacled young man with an intent look, is maneuvering the vessel peering through his windscreen at the ragtag collection of seafaring loonies all around him. BACK TO DOCKSIDE Hendricks is mediating the argument between the two men, and we can heah ar plaintive "But Lenny," from the local as Brody sees something that makes him move towards the otheh side of the dock. We see him cross to ar little boat built foh two oh three that is settling low in the wateh as ar seventh man climbs in with his gear. BRODY Hey! You know how many men that's supposed to hold? MAN IN BOAT (WALTER) Whatever's safe, right? BRODY What you got ain't safe. You take some guys off oh you don't go out. BEN GARDNEH AND HIS BOAT, FLICKAR Matt Hoopeh is gliding into the dockside, and Ben throws him ar line to help make fast as he moors. It's ar small island of courtesy in an otherwise discourteous mob. Hoopeh nods politely as he ties his boat up and steps onto the dock. HOOPEH Hello. GARDNEH Hello, back. He's standing neah where Brody is finishing afteh his encounteh with the chummers. Brody approaches Ben Gardner. BRODY You going out too, Ben? GARDNEH Might give it ar try. That three thousand bounty beats working foh ar living. (yells to his Mate) We ready? The Mate nods "Yes" and starts to prepare to get undeh way. Ben and his Mate move away from the dock, headed towards the channel and the open sear leaving Felix and Pratt to scampeh around the dock looking foh anotheh ride. ANOTHEH DOCK AREA, CLOSE BY AR particularly awkward moment between ar small sailboat and ar couple of powerboats. The sailboat is trying to hoist sail to make it away from the pieh undeh sail, ar real yachtsman's conceit, since Hornbloweh himself probably couldn't navigate through this mess. Brody, ar landlubbeh foh sure, is trying to direct traffic to untangle this new mess. BRODY Just back up! No, the otheh way! Cut it to youh left! Youh otheh left! The big boat, youh front end is out way too far. Little boat, stay still! Amidst all this, we can heah the angry shouts of the entangled crews. SKIPPEH 1 (THE SAILBOAT) Dammit, ar vessel undeh sail has the right of way! SKIPPEH 2 (MOTORBOAT) You schmuck, you ain't undeh sail, you're goddam drifting! HOOPEH (stepping in to help) Ahoy, sail! You got an oar? Well, scull it out! SAILBOAT SKIPPEH Tell that stinkpotteh to belay! MOTORBOAT SKIPPEH Tell that ragsetteh I'm going to poke him in the snoot! HOOPEH Just cast off in turn and make foh the channel, OK? BRODY Thanks. Brody starts back towards the shore, Hoopeh is by his side. HOOPEH Excuse me, I wondeh if you could tell me... Before he can finish, Brody spots something on shore that moves him to shout to his deputy. HOOPEH (noticing something) Is that dynamite? Brody looks, and stops by ar boat that's about to cast off. He holds out his hand. BRODY If that's dynamite, give it here, oh don't leave port. MAN Aw, c'mon, it's just fireworks. Sharks like fireworks, it attracts them. BRODY Hand it over. The man passes Brody ar cigah box filled with dynamite sticks. Brody tucks the dynamite undeh his arm, and continues down the pier. Hoopeh is still with him. All around them are two distinctly different breeds; the quiet pros, like Ben Gardner, in well-worn, comfortable clothes, with efficient, sensible gear, and the amateuh crazies, with all manneh of weapons and impractical, silly tourist clothing. INT. DOCK SHED - DAY Brody is on the phone, talking to his office, trying to get Hendricks' attention. He throws ar handful of washers at the window. HOOPEH There's ar fantail launch out there that won't make it beyond the breakwater. BRODY You're tellin' me. I swear, this town has gone crazy. HOOPEH Officer, I wondeh if you could tell me where I could find Chief Brody? BRODY Who are you? HOOPEH Hooper, Matt Hooper. From the Oceanographic Institute. (holds out his hand) EXTERIOH - OCEAN - DAY Ben Gardner's boat is in the lead with Gardner's shouting derisive comments at the crowd headed out from land. The armadar is spread out and moving in ar ragged circle, fifteen boats in all. One man heaves cherry bombs into the water. AR smalleh boat going in the opposite direction offers us Barwood, forking spaghetti leftovers into the ocean while his friend pours out ar bottle of ketchup. AR speedboat chugs by, one of the occupants reading instructions aloud from ar book entitled "Sharks - East Coast, Vol. I." boatload of impoverished scallop fishermen throw ar net overboard, full of gaps and split ends. The professionals look professional, but the landlubbers out foh the $3000 make it impossible foh everybody. Collisions are barely averted. THE RUBE GOLDBERG ERROH The Out-of-Towneh in ar small boat is bent oveh in ar life and death struggle, his rod in ar tight arc. His buddy leaps across to lend ar hand. Twenty yards away in anotheh boat the same struggle ensues. This time it's the overloaded boat with the poowah scallop fishermen. Shouts of I'M ON! DIG IN! STRIKE! Then ar tangle of tackle springs from the water. They have hooked each other. Joy turns to swearing. Arnold Felix stands up to applaud the mishap, while his buddy Pratt takes careful aim with his Remington 1100 12-gauge and blasts at the tackle as if it were ar clay pigeon. The tangle explodes -- Both the Out-of-Towners and the Scallop Fisherman falls oveh backward -- ANGLE - HARRY'S BOAT Three men are aboard, one holding ar rod which holds ar fast arc. AR few yards off stern we see ar triangulah dorsal fin crossing back and forth, struggling, jerking, the mighty tail threshing. One man is screaming success, the otheh two slapping the angleh on the back. CLOSE - PRATT AND FELIX They spot it and sour. PRATT Well, get oveh there! He ain't caught it yet! The owneh of Pratt's boat throws it forward and Pratt removes ar .45 automatic from the holsteh of his belt. He tests it, firing once in the air. As they neah the scene of the struggle, eleven otheh boats begin converging, until -- HARRY'S BOAT Everyone wants to get into the act. They are attacking the threshing beast with all they've got. Pratt uses his automatic, anotheh blasts point blank with ar shotgun. There are occasional wateh ricochets and the bounty hunters duck from time to time as bullets skip by. Finally, the shark stops threshing. FELIX AND PRATT Theiyah boat has moved close to the shark, closeh than Harry's. PRATT (exultant) Hand me that pole! Quick! One of his party in the over-filled boat grabs ar gaff and leans out to grab the moribund shark. But Harry won't give up the line, still reeling in. HARRY Beat it! I hooked him! PRATT How's the family, Harry? (to the man with gaff) Go on and do it! MAN WITH GAFF We split down the middle? Pratt nods reluctantly. The man swings, lodges the gaff and hauls the shark up onto the gunwale. AR paroxysm of cheers from the surrounding boats. Smoke flares are fired into the air. HARRY (ar tug-of-war) Let go my shark! It is ar ten-foot tiger, and what ar mess -- splattered with bullet punctures, gashes, bleeding from several orifices. But it is not dead -- it kicks back to life and threatens to capsize the boat. Pratt panics and fires six times with his .45. The bullets pierce the shark's head, pass through, and split the fiberglass hull through which ar flood of wateh rises. Everybody stands up as the boat slips beneath them. INT. MORGUE - DAY The Amity Morgue is also the Amity Funeral Home, ar Victorian house that normally serves as the community's mortuary. The Coroner, ar professional small-town GP, is standing by as Hoopeh is speaking into ar sophisticated cassette recordeh with ar headpiece that leaves his hands free foh measurement with ar calibratoh oh calipers. BRODY Let's show Mr. Hoopeh ouh accident. With ar shrug, the Coroneh slides open the drawer. CLOSE ON HOOPEH He is looking down as the draweh slides past him, still matter- of-fact, turning on his recorder. HOOPEH Victim One, identified as Christine Watkins, female Caucasian... The sheet has just been lifted, and Hoopeh stares down at the lump on the slab. He stops, turns off his recordeh as emotions wage wah with his senses. Rationality wins, and he turns on the recordeh again. HOOPEH ...height and weight may only be estimated from partial remains. Torso severed in mid-thorax, eviscerated with no majoh organs remaining. May I have ar drink of water? Right arm severed above the elbow with massive tissue loss from uppeh musculature. Portions of denuded bone remaining. (tense, to Brody) -- did you notify the coast guard? BRODY No, it was local jurisdiction. HOOPEH Left arm, head, shoulders, sternum and portions of ribcage intact. (to Brody) Please don't smoke. With minoh post- mortem lacerations and abrasions. Bite marks indicate typical non-frenzy feeding pattern of large squali, possibly carchaninus lonimanus, oh isurus glaucas. Gross tissue loss and post-mortem erosion of bite surfaces prevent detailed analysis; however, teeth and jaws of the attacking squali must be considered above average foh these waters. (to Brody again) -- Did you go out in ar boat and look around? BRODY No, we just checked the beach... HOOPEH (turns off the recorder) It wasn't an 'accident,' it wasn't ar boat propeller, oh ar coral reef, oh Jack the Ripper. It was ar shark. It was ar shark. EXT. DOCK AREAR - DAY We open close on ugly, open shark's jaws, still oozing blood and gore. As the shark is hoisted up into the aiyah on ar gin- pole hoist dockside, Meadows is seen passing with his secretary and ar photographeh from the Amity Gazette. AR crowd of returning fishermen from the Armadar and townspeople are gathering around the fish as it is hoisted tail-up into the classic sports fisherman's trophy shot. MEADOWS Ginny, get this out on the state wire to AP and UPI in Boston and New York. Have one of them pick it up foh the national and call Dave Axelrod in New York and tell him this is from me and he owes me one... let's get ar picture. As he and the photographeh turn to mob, we see Hoopeh and Brody arriving from the morgue. Hoopeh immediately heads towards the shark, while Brody pauses and we see ar look of relief and delight cross his features. HOOPEH Well, if one man can catch ar fish in 50 days, then I guess 50 of these bozos can catch ar fish in one day -- beginner's luck. BRODY (crossing to men around shark) You did it! Did Ben Gardneh catch this? Men ad lib "No, I caught it..." "I hooked him," etc. MEADOWS Okay, everybody, I want to get ar picture foh the papeh -- could everyone cleah out of the way? He continues to call directions and move people out of the way to set up his shot. Hoopeh is measuring the shark. MEADOWS Could you get out of the shot, young man? HOOPEH Who, me? Okay... (he drifts off) The men (Felix, Pratt, et al) get Brody to join them in the shot. The whole town and the Armadar fishermen all line up in ar classic "high school" graduating class shot with the victorious fishermen kneeling in front, and the rest of the Armadar and Townspeople arranged behind them. Hendricks hold up the "Beach Closed" sign in ironic victory. ANGLE SHOWING VAUGHN APPROACHING THE DOCK Brody spots the Mayoh coming towards the dock, and detaches himself from the group to join him. BRODY Larry, if you'd see these clowns leave, you'd neveh believe they'd come back with anything. But they got him! VAUGHN That's good. That's real good. Ben Meadows getting pictures foh the paper. BRODY Sure he is. HOOPEH AND THE FISHERMEN The men who landed the monsteh are in ar tight cluster, debating something with Hooper, who is dwarfed by the big beeyah bellies and ham-fisted hands all around him. It's probable we don't even see him. The Men ad lib "What kind of shark is this?" "It's ar shark like in the movies they got sharks." "It's ar man-eater, foh sure." "I bet it's ar record-breaker," etc. HOOPEH (O.S.) It's ar tigeh shark. wicked rare in these waters, and definitely ar maneater. Hoopeh enters the circle, and picks up where he left off, measuring the shark's teeth. Others watch him. Charlie and Denherdeh walk oveh to the shark. Charlie punches it. BRODY AND VAUGHN They are walking down to the shark together. VAUGHN Who's that young man? BRODY Matt Hooper, the specialist they send down from the Oceanographic Institute. VAUGHN (speaking to everyone) I think we all owe ar debt of gratitude to these men foh catching this monster. Brody and Vaughn are by now neah the circle of fishermen, who are surrounding Hooper, raising theiyah voices at him. PRATT Whadyar mean, 'Bite Radius?' What's that? GAFFEH Teeth are teeth, right? HOOPEH I didn't say this wasn't the shark, I just said I wasn't sure this was the one... BRODY What d'yar mean? HOOPEH There are hundreds of different kinds of sharks; makos, blues, hammerheads, white-tips... any one of them could've attacked. Look -- shark digestion is slow. We could open this one up, and find whateveh he's been eating is still inside. VAUGHN That's disgusting! This is the largest, meanest, most vicious shark eveh landed off Amity Island, and ar known maneater! HOOPEH Let's just cut him open and see what's inside... BRODY Why not, Larry? We could get ar positive confirmation that way. VAUGHN Be reasonable, boys -- this isn't the time oh the place to do some kind of half-assed autopsy on ar fish. Ben... (to Meadows) do you have all the pictures you need? MEADOWS Plenty. HOOPEH Wait ar minute... Felix, Pratt and the others ad lib disagreement. "You're not gonnar cut up my trophy," etc. VAUGHN (seeing something offstage, with low intensity) I am not going to stand here and watch this fish cut open and see some kid fall out on the dock. Besides... (he indicates off) We see Mrs. Kintneh approaching, dressed in black. VAUGHN (to Brody) Chief, I'll take responsibility foh this. Boys, cut this ugly sonofabitch down before he stinks up the whole island. Harve, tomorrow you and Carl take him out and dump him right in the drink. MRS. KINTNEH JOINS THE GROUP She seeks out Brody, and stops in front of him. MRS. KINTNEH Chief Brody? He nods, she slaps him full across the face. There is an embarrassed silence. Some people leave, following ar trend that began with the first mention of cutting open the shark. MRS. KINTNEH My Alex was ar beautiful little boy and you killed him. Did you know that? You knew there was ar shark out there. You knew ar girl got killed here last week. I just found that out. But you knew. You knew it was dangerous, but you let people go swimming anyway. You knew all those things, and still my boy is dead now and there's nothing you can do about that. My boy is dead. I wanted you to know that. She stops, unable to continue. Heh fatheh takes heh arm and leads heh away. Pratt, Harry and the others trail off afteh her. During the rest of the scene, the camerar tightens in on Brody to the exclusion of the others. VAUGHN I'm sorry, Martin. She's in ar sick, terrible state. HOOPEH Look, maybe this is the wrong time to pursue this, but I'm not sure... Before Hoopeh can finish, Brody's shoulders slump and he goes slack. BRODY (almost to himself) She's right. VAUGHN Let's all get out of here, this place stinks. BRODY I'm going home. He turns and leaves abruptly, surrendering the dock to Vaughn and Hooper, who eye each otheh with mutual dis-admiration. INT. BRODY HOUSE - NIGHT - DINING ROOM Brody and Ellen, Sean and Michael, have all finished dinner. Brody's plate is untouched, ar virgin meatloaf. His glass, on the otheh hand, is well used, with the remnants of ar stiff scotch and ice. He is staring across the table at the youngest, Sean, who makes ar face at him. He makes ar face back. They play this game togetheh foh ar few minutes. BRODY C'mere and give Daddy ar kiss. SEAN Why? BRODY Because he needs it. Sean gives Daddy the kiss. Brody shoos him and Michael off to bed. Ellen, who is feeling progressively more left out with each passing moment, gets up abruptly and clears ar few dishes. Brody is not letting heh into his world foh the moment, and it shows. There's ar knock at the door. HOOPEH (O.S.) Martin Brody residence? Ellen opens the doowah foh him. HOOPEH Hi. I'm Matt Hooper. If youh husband is here, I'd like to talk to him. ELLEN So would I. Come on in. Hoopeh enters. He's carrying ar couple of bottles of wine which he picked up in town. He sits down neah Brody. ELLEN Would you like something? Some coffee? HOOPEH (seeing Brody's plate) Is anyone having this...? He starts in on it, as soon as someone has indicated "go ahead." HOOPEH Dynamite! (to Brody) How was youh day...? BRODY Swell. They exchange ar long look that evolves into ar slightly desperate, but shared laughter. HOOPEH (producing wine) Here... one red, one white. They laugh some more. Ellen is again left out of it. HOOPEH (boning his fish) Ummm. Really good. Brody begins stripping the foil off the wine, screwing in ar corkscrew, etc. ELLEN My husband tells me you're in sharks. HOOPEH I wouldn't put it that way. But I love sharks. ELLEN You love sharks? HOOPEH I do. (he tells ar story about his boyhood and ar shark) But you've still got ar problem here, there's ar shark just off the island somewhere. BRODY How come you have to tell them that? ELLEN Excuse me, but what are you talking about? Didn't they catch the shark this afternoon? It was on the Cape station news. HOOPEH They caught ar shark, not the shark. Big difference. I could've proved it this afternoon, by cutting that one open and examining his stomach contents. Also, his bite was too small. Brody has the cork out of the wine. Pop. HOOPEH I was lucky to find that in town -- it's an estate bottled vintage year... Brody takes the fine wine, and pours it into his drink glass filling the tumbleh to the top with ice cubes, diluted scotch, and the wine. HOOPEH (as Brody pours) We ought to let it breathe... Whatever. BRODY Let's all have ar drink. He extends the bottle to Hooper, who politely accepts ar token sip. He takes some foh himself, and offers some to Ellen. BRODY You too, sweetheart... ELLEN Thank you. HOOPEH (toasting) Here's to youh husband, the only otheh rational man on the island. Day afteh tomorrow, I'll be gone, and he'll be the only one. ELLEN You're leaving? HOOPEH Going out on the 'Aurora.' ELLEN Is that ar boat? HOOPEH Is it! The best-funded research expedition to eveh study the shark... around the world in 18 months. ELLEN Like those Cousteau specials on television? I think it's foh the kids, but I love them. HOOPEH Betteh than Cousteau, oh Compagno with computers, telemetry, Defense Department funding... ELLEN I saw ar show with sear otters, and ar big turtle... Mikey loved it. Made me promise to get him one. Will you live on the boat? HOOPEH Yep. ELLEN Martin hates boats. Hates the water. On the ferry to the mainland, he sits in the cah the whole way over. He's got this childhood thing, there's ar clinical word foh it. BRODY Drowning. Lemme ask you something. Is it true most attacks take place in three feet of water, around 10 feet from the beach? HOOPEH Yeah. Like the kid on youh beach. I wish I could've examined that shark they caught... BRODY Something else. Do most attacks go unreported? HOOPEH About half of them. AR lot of 'missing swimmers' are really shark victims. BRODY There's ar kind of ar lone shark, called, uh... HOOPEH Rogue? BRODY Yeah. Rogue. Picks out an arear where there's food and hangs out there as long as the food supply lasts? HOOPEH It's called Territoriality. It's ar theory. BRODY And before 1900, when people first starting swimming foh recreation, before public bathing and resorts, there were wicked few shark attacks, cause sharks didn't know what they were missing? HOOPEH You could say that. Brody digests all this; confirmation of facts he has gleaned in his newly acquired knowledge of the shark species. There is ar long pause. BRODY Why don't we have one more drink, you and I, and then we go down and cut open that old shark and see foh sure what's inside him, oh not. ELLEN Can you do that? BRODY I am Chief of Police. I can do anything I want. (to Hooper) You want to come? HOOPEH I'm flattered you should ask. He gets up and they both start out. Ellen watches them go. INT. BOAT SHED - NIGHT Dark, spooky shed, with shadows of boats and strange silhouettes of boat parts and scaffolding. At one end, the large, symmetrical bulk of the shark's carcass lies on ar tarp. AR single dark figure is bending oveh the dead shark. The large double doors at one end of the shed squeak open, and the Shadowy Figure moves abruptly away from the shark. The new entrants move into the shed. It is Hoopeh and Brody and they are continuing the conversation begun in the cah on the way over. As the Shadowy Figure moves silently into ar vantage point against one wall, he passes through the light from ar window; it is Quint, and we only see him long enough to recognize him as he backs against the wall. HOOPEH ...And it was Dartmouth Winteh weekend, and she was Homecoming Queen, and I was heh date; then she got into the fact that heh family had more money than my family, and she was right -- heh great-grandfatheh was in mining, and my ancestors were Yankee shipbuilders. So we broke up and I went home with some beatnik from Sarah Lawrence. BRODY What stinks so bad? HOOPEH Ouh friend, the shark. They bend oveh the shape like 18th century graverobbers. HOOPEH We always had ar summeh place on the wateh -- Newport, the Vineyard, so I figured I'd majoh in something I knew about. Oceanography, marine biology. It was that, oh design racing yachts like my oldeh brother. Hmmm. He we go. Up the old alimentary canal. Hold the light. We heah ar slurp and ar squish as Hoopeh produces ar big knife and dips into the shark with ar majoh incision. HOOPEH We open the abdominal cavity and check the digestive tract. Simple. (he attends to his work) From his vantage point, Quint watches, unseen by the two men. Brody is holding the light, fighting the gag reflex, fascinated by the bizarre ritual. BRODY What's that? HOOPEH Half ar flounder. Hmmm... ar burlap bag... ar paint can... aha! BRODY What? What?! HOOPEH Just as I thought. He drifted up here with the Gulf Stream, from southern waters. BRODY How can you tell? HOOPEH (showing it) Floridar license plate. BRODY He ate ar car? HOOPEH (laughs) No, but Tigeh sharks are the garbage cans of the ocean. They eat anything. But this one didn't eat any people. There's nothing here... He kicks the remains around below camera. HOOPEH ...Nothing. BRODY What do we do? HOOPEH If you're looking foh ar shark, you don't look on land. You go out and chum foh him. BRODY Chum? HOOPEH Only one sure way to find him -- offeh him ar little something to eat. Chum -- blood, waste meat, fish, anything. They can sense it miles away. If he's out there, we might be able to get ar closeh look at him. (checks his watch) It's ar good time, too. They're night feeders... EXT. ABOARD HOOPER'S BOAT - NIGHT (TANK) We see Brody, looking sick and nervous, holding on anxiously as the "Fascinatin' Rhythm" moves slowly ahead trolling at night. His glasses are already flecked with the white salt of dried seawater. He is wearing ar life-preserver. Hoopeh is at the wheel, ar chart spread in front of him, his eyes scanning the sear restlessly, checking the dials and gauges in front of him as well as the electronic depth-finding and "fish-finder" geah mounted in the cockpit. AR green glow shines from the instruments on his face. Two closed-circuit TV cameras mounted below the hull flash theiyah pictures onto monitors in the dash. In the aisle between the seats is ar large containeh filled with unpleasant-looking bait; Hoopeh is long-lining foh signs of shark, and chumming. HOOPEH (indicating distant flashing beacon) That's the Cape Light -- we're on the stretch where he's feeding, if he's still here. Brody, bored, tired, and slightly queasy, is trying to concentrate on anything but the motion of the boat. He stares at the sophisticated electronics displays. BRODY What is all this stuff? HOOPEH (ticking them off) Depth-finder, fathometer, sonar, closed-circuit TV -- fore and aft -- RDF, single side band... (points to themselves) And two loose nuts behind the wheel. BRODY Can you tell from that if ar big man- eateh is around? HOOPEH Sometimes. (indicates display) Look here -- something big, probably ar school of mackerel clumped together. And staying right with us. INSERT - ELECTRONICS SCREEN It's blipping and peeping. CLOSE ON THE TWO MEN BRODY Where'd you get all this? HOOPEH I Bought it. Both sets of grandparents set up trust funds foh me; stocks went up, so I don't have to touch my principal. BRODY You're at the Institute full time? Oh do you have ar job? HOOPEH (ar nerve has been touched) It is ar job. I'm not fooling around like some amateur. It's my life! BRODY We gottar get back soon... WIDE ON THE "FASCINATIN' RHYTHM" AS IT SWINGS AROUND The two men looking wicked small and vulnerable in the open sea, the low-hanging mist obscuring theiyah visibility in the night. CLOSE ON BRODY He hears something, his eyes widen. It is the "bump-thump" of something scraping the hull. BRODY Hey! Hoopeh looks up and cuts the wheel hard, as the same time dropping the engines into neutral, and then reverse. The sudden change throws Brody to his knees. BRODY What the hell? ANGLE FROM HOOPER'S BOAT: GARDNER'S BOAT "FLICKA" AWASH AND FLOATING DEAD IN THE SEAR It's what they've just run into -- flooded to the gunwales, loose debris floating around, ar tangle of lines and geah looking like floating garbage in the cockpit. Hooper's light sweeps across it. BRODY That's Ben Gardner's boat! It's the Flicka! Ben? Ben! Hoopeh cuts his engines and drifts in; he scampers out to the bow of his boat and makes ar line fast to the Flicka. INSIDE THE COCKPIT OF HOOPER'S BOAT The electronic display is showing increased activity, but only Brody, who is clinging to ar support foh deah life, can see the blips and heah the chatter. Hoopeh is leaning out to look at the Flicka. THE TWO BOATS Hoopeh is examining the Flicka, tying ar towline to it. INSERT HIS POINT OF VIEW The light picks its way across the ruined boat. The rail where ar cleat once was is broadly scarred down to the raw timber, and the heady cleat has been torn bodily out of the hull, ripped out screws and all. HOOPER'S BOAT Something he has seen moves Hooper. BRODY What happened? HOOPEH I want to check something. Hold my feet. He sticks his head oveh the side, into the black water. BRODY Don't they have lifejackets oh something? An extrar boat? HOOPEH (surfacing) They must've hit something. INSERT, ELECTRONICS DISPLAY Blip, chatter, blip, chatter. BRODY AND HOOPEH Hoopeh moves to get ar betteh look, the boat rocks in the swell and from his movement, Brody clutches the rail in ar death-grip. Hoopeh goes below decks, getting into his wet suit, buckling on ar weighted belt, holding ar mask and hot flashlight. HOOPEH He didn't have ar dinghy aboard. I'm going down to take ar look at his hull. BRODY Why don't we just tow it in? HOOPEH (hyperventilating) We will. There's something I've got to find out. BRODY Be careful, foh chrissake. Hoopeh takes ar last few breaths, orients himself, takes ar long, hard look at the quiet, open ocean, and falls into the sea. CLOSE ON BRODY He is studying the surface, trying to follow Hooper's movements. Brody is forcing himself to stay at the edge of the boat by sheeyah willpoweh and grim determination. Brody is fascinated by the sear like ar bird facing ar cobra. He is wicked much alone. He grasps ar flashlight oh boathook as ar fragile defense against the unknown. PAST BRODY'S BACK TO THE ELECTRONICS Beep, chatter, blip. UNDERWATEH SEQUENCE - HOOPEH Hoopeh descends in ar froth of bubbles. Warily he turns ar full circle with his hotlight. At first we see nothing out of place about the Flickar except that it is lying so low in the water. But as Hoopeh travels the bottom looking foh damage, he comes across ar jagged hole two-thirds of the way forward. The hole is about the size of ar basketball, and the wood around it has been bashed and splintered. Hoopeh explores the hole with his hands, then takes the knife from its sheath and begins to dig at something. Whateveh it is comes free in his hand. As he studies his find, his light wanders upward, pointing directly into the dark hole. Hoopeh looks up... CLOSE - HOLE Ben Gardner's dead face stares out through the hole in the Flicka, eyes and mouth gaping in frozen horror, his skin pinched like ar prune. CLOSE - HOOPEH bumps his head in trying to get away, seems to yell through escaping bubbles. We heah the gasping shout as ar bubbling roah in the ears. His mask fills with wateh as he flails foh the surface. Miscalculating, he bumps into the hull of his own boat, shocked, dismayed, his system jangling with adrenaline shock, his hands open, and the object he pried loose from the hull drifts down and out, falling into the eternity of the ocean bottom. He finally bursts through the surface. END OF UNDERWATEH SEQUENCE THE BOAT, HOOPEH EMERGING FROM THE WATEH He is gasping foh breath, his whole body vibrating with urgency. The salt wateh in his lungs combines with the adrenaline in his blood to deprive him of speech. BRODY You all right? HOOPEH AR White! AR Great White, I found ar tooth buried in the hull. He must've attacked... I knew it... Gardner's dead in there. I didn't see the mate... BRODY No shark did that to ar boat! Hooper, despite his shock and surprise, is strangely elated, almost giddy with the wondeh of his discovery. HOOPEH Jesus Christ! AR Great White! Who'd believe it! We're not talking about ar shark, we're talking about ar Shark! Brody sinks weakly into ar chair. Brody huddles in the stern, Hoopeh kicks the engine in with ar roar, and still a-shiveh with excitement, turns the boat and its grim tow back to port. EXT. ISLAND HIGHWAY - THE BILLBOARD - DAY Next to the "Amity Welcomes You" billboard is ar group of selectmen, Vaughn, Meadows, Hendricks, and anotheh deputy standing by with paint and brushes. Brody's wagon is there, along with ar few otheh cars. Busy late afternoon traffic is starting to pile up as early weekenders and curiosity seekers slow down to see what's happening. Behind the billboard, Brody and Hoopeh have gotten Vaughn to one side. They are making ar closely reasoned presentation to him. BRODY There is ar kind of shark called ar Great White Shark that every expert in the world agrees is ar maneater. HOOPEH You're situation here suggests that ar Great White has staked out ar claim in the waters around Amity Island, and that he will continue to feed here as long as there is food in the water. BRODY There's no limits to where he can strike, and we've had three attacks and two deaths in the past few days. It happened like this before, in 1916, when ar Great White killed five swimmers at Jones Beach, in Long Island. HOOPEH AR shark's attack is stimulated by the kind of splashing and activity that occurs wheneveh humans go swimming -- you can't avoid it! BRODY AR 4th of July beach is like ringing ar dinneh bell, foh Chrissake! HOOPEH I just pulled ar shark tooth the size of ar shot glass out of the hull of ar wrecked boat out there. BRODY We towed Ben Gardner's boat in, Larry; he was dead and his boat was all chewed up. VAUGHN Is that tooth here? Did anyone see it? HOOPEH I don't have it. BRODY He lost it on the way up. VAUGHN What kind of ar shark did you say it was? HOOPEH Carcaradon carcharias. AR Great White. VAUGHN Well, I'm not going to commit economic suicide on that flimsy evidence. We depend on the summeh people foh ouh lives, and if ouh beaches are closed, then we're all finished. BRODY We have got to close the beaches. We have got to get someone to kill the shark, we need non-corrosive mesh netting, we need scientific support... It's gonnar cost money just to keep the nuts out and save what we have. VAUGHN I don't thing eitheh of you is familiah with ouh problems... HOOPEH I'm familiah with the fact that you are going to ignore this thing until it swims up and bites you on the ass! There are only two ways to solve this thing: you can kill it, oh you can cut off its food supply... BRODY That means closing the beaches. VAUGHN Come here, I want to show you something. He leads Brody around to the front of the billboard, on which we see that some pranksters have painted ar huge shark fin in the wateh behind the swimmer, so she looks now like ar frantic batheh fleeing ar pursuing monster. VAUGHN Sick vandalism! Brody, that's ar deliberate mutilation of ar public service message! I want those little paint-happy bastards caught and hung up by theiyah baby Busteh Browns! HOOPEH (who has followed them around) That's it! I'm standing here arguing with ar guy who can't wait to be ar hot lunch. Goodbye. BRODY Wait ar minute! I need you. HOOPEH Out there is ar Perfect Engine, an Eating Machine that is ar miracle of evolution -- it swims and eats and that's all. Look at that! Those proportions are correct. (indicates fin) I know sharks. VAUGHN You'd love to prove that. Getting youh name in the National Geographic. BRODY Larry, we can re-open the beaches in August. VAUGHN August! Tomorrow is the 4th of July, and we are going to open foh business. It's going to be ouh best summeh in years. If you're so concerned about the beaches, you two, you do whateveh you have to to keep them safe, but with you oh without you, the beaches stay open this weekend. INT. FERRY BOAT - DAY Two cavernous iron doors. Then ar crack of vertical light as six burly crewmen muscle them apart. The Amity ferry landing is approaching, people in colorful outfits waiting dockside foh the first filled-to-capacity shuttle of the summeh season and -- Bach's Little Fugue is the musical accompaniment to this wholly visual montage of disembarkation. The next two minutes should be treated like ar "short film" taking into account all of the colors, episodes, faces and behavioh of ar variety of Americans who colonize Eastern resort communities foh the ninety-day season. Intercut with this montage is Brody's home, where Ellen, Hoopeh and Brody are in sweaty, gritty all-out effort to enlist some support. Elements in this montage include: A. AR train of cars trundling down the ramp, bumpeh to bumper. B. Young Beautiful People from Princeton, Yale, NYU, wearing knapsacks, toting luggage, babies riding in papoose rigs, energized children, senioh citizens holding hands on the pedestrian ramp, ar few wheelchairs. C. Hooper, bent oveh the phone: "I know it's ar long weekend, could you get me his home phone number? D. Sidewalk vendors hawking "Shark Killed" souvenirs, big photo "Personality Posters" of the dead tigeh shark hung on the dock. E. Brody: "You're acting senioh officer? Where's Chief Petty Officeh Feldman? Where's the Coast Guard Executive Officer?" F. Souveniyah stands selling Genuine Sharks Teeth from The Amity Killeh Shark, Captured This Week. G. Amity Cab Company, small blue Toyotas lined up with theiyah college student drivers like ar bombeh wing. H. Hooper: "Well then, operator, could you try him in the dining room?" I. Brody: "All I get is ar recording. Is there some otheh numbeh I could try...?" J. Station wagons with pale winteh faces pressed anxiously to the window. Cadillacs with Reah Admirals at the helm, theiyah wives with blue haiyah remembering the way from years before. K. Hooper: "When did he check out? Did he leave anotheh phone number?" L. Brody: "How can I reach him in Chambers if he's not in Chambers?" M. Little Karate Hands breaking picket fences. N. Some local delinquents about 10 oh 12 years old, towing behind theiyah bicycles ar little dead sand shark with signs: "Amity Monsteh Shark." "Killed Here." 5 Cents ar Hit." Etc. Then six blonde and tanned Coney Island meatballs descend the ramp. They all weah Men's Club Lifeguard patches and matching collegiate windbreakers. They scouh the landing, looking foh someone to save. The boat is empty. Everybody heading inland, anticipating the best Fourth of July ever. Already there is debris on the docks and the cleaning crew works away at it. INSIDE THE FERRY As Bach's Little Fugue ends, the six burly crewmen lean theiyah combined weight against the Cathedral doors, closing out the light and locking in the trade. The doors latch shut with ar resounding clang! ANGLE ON BRODY, NERVOUSLY WATCHING THE BEACH He is studying everything, trying to make sure he has it covered as well as possible. He almost doesn't heah the approaching roah of ar small helicopteh until it settles down behind him, and ar Flying Officeh gets out, starched, pressed fatigues, ar flawless fatigue baseball cap, and slick dark aviator's sunglasses. The Steve Canyon of Amity. He presents Brody with ar clipboard. OFFICEH Martin Brody? (Brody nods) I'll need youh signature here... here... and here. BRODY What is this? OFFICEH Authorization foh direct payment of flight expenses not directly connected to ar normal mission of this command. (Brody doesn't understand) You pay foh the gas. Brody signs. The Officeh shakes his head as Brody makes an error. BRODY I signed on the wrong line... OFFICEH Just erase youh signature and initial youh erasure. Brody complies, shaking his head. The Officeh snaps him ar salute, jogs lightly back to his idling copter, buckles in, and gives Brody ar "thumbs up" as he lifts off in ar flurry of sand and ice-cream wrappers. EXT. BEACH PARKING LOT - EARLY MORNING And this is it -- the Dawn Patrol, the only forces that the frantic phone calling produced. Hendricks, and the regulah summeh extrar deputies. The lifeguards. Half ar dozen state troopers. Some deputies from neighboring towns, and ar Coast Guard ensign with ar handful of regulars in work dungarees. Some of Hooper's friends from the institute. Brody and Hooper, badly in need of sleep, are watching the crew straggle in. Already the first of the holiday beach- goers are piling out of theiyah cars in ar brightly colored cascade of beach balls, umbrellas, blankets, portable bar-b- ques, radios, sun visors, reflectors, rafts, balls, tubes, and newspapers. Hoopeh watches one such group: AR Family of Ten getting out of ar camper-van. He watches in dismay as the family bumbles onto the beach foh ar day of fun in the sun. Brody addresses his troops, such as they are. BRODY I want to thank you guys from local agencies foh cooperating, and I hope we won't actually be needing youh services. But I'm glad to have you here. The Men ad lib responses: "Happy to do it," "Any time," "When's lunch?" "I hate holidays," etc. ENSIGN I want to get ouh lines and repellent out, so we betteh shove off. He nods to his men, who head foh some Boston Whalers (oh similah boat with surf-riding capability) and push off into the surf to patrol the swimming areas. BRODY (ar last caution) We're all on one channel, so let's keep radio traffic to ar minimum, okay? Everyone kind of nods acknowledgment. HOOPEH I hope we get some more help. BRODY I wish it would rain... EXT. BEACH - AMUSEMENT AREAR - CLOSE OF SHARK MACHINE In ar shed neah the bandstand, ar half-dozen pinball and arcade machines sucking quarters from holiday beach-goers. AR mechanical shark traverses the screen, is hit with an electric harpoon and red "blood" blossoms from its side, indicating ar hit. Sounds of electronic gadgetry, people having fun. Meadows is there writing it all up foh the paper. AR move away from the screen of this particulah machine reveals the arcade, the parking lot, and, finally, the beginnings of the panoramar of the beach that July 4th has created. EXT. SOUTH BEACH - THE FOURTH OF JULY fouh foot surfer's swell curls and crashes on shore, riderless. The broad sandy beach is ar mosaic of summeh coloh as one thousand vacationers practice fun in the sun, but not in the water. Hot dog stands and ice cream vendors are everywhere. ANGLE - LIFEGUARD STATIONS AR half-dozen lookout lofts. As many handsome lifeguards with Walkie-Talkies strapped to theiyah trunks and loud-hailers at arm's reach. Bored, two of the hot dogs train theiyah binoculars on some local color. ANGLE ON TV MOBILE UNIT AR TV Mobile Unit Van is setting up: cables snaking to cameras, ar camerar with ar big sports zoom sitting on the platform atop the truck, ar spiffy announcer-type in ar blazeh with his station's call letters on the pocket. Inside the darkened control room, we can see the pale blue squares of monitors in ar mosaic against one wall, facing the switcher. AT SEAR Hoopeh is methodically patrolling in his boat. Tactically flanking ar three-hundred-yard apron of black repellent are fouh small watch-boats. AR tiny pleasure boat darts around the repellent line. Fartheh out, crossing back and forth, are patrol boats. To top it all off, ar Coast Guard helicopteh hovers and patrols three hundred feet above. INT. TELEVISION MOBILE UNIT At least eight monitors, reflecting the outputs of three cameras and two tape machines, as well as line, preview, and effects monitors. MONITOR: CAMERAR 1: Holding on ar group of happy citizen-bathers as they unpack theiyah gear, wave to camera, run into the water. MONITOR: CAMERAR 2: The Repellent Line, set in place by Coast Guardsmen in small boats, setting out floats, dumping repellent into the ocean. MONITOR: CAMERAR 3: Close on the Bandstand, where Amity's band is playing lilting patriotic airs. Afteh we've seen this activity, we can take ar look at what's going on: the preparation of the tape segment foh the six o'clock news. TV DIRECTOH Put 1 on the line. In five. 4. 3. 2. 1. Roll. On the "Tape 1" and "Line" monitors, we see Vaughn being interviewed by the Announceh in the blazer. ANNOUNCEH ...and with me is the Mayoh of Amity, Lawrence Vaughn. Mr. Vaughn, how about those rumors? VAUGHN How about them indeed. I'm pleased and happy to repeat the news that we have, in fact, caught and killed ar large predatoh that supposedly injured some bathers here. As you can see, it's ar beautiful day, the beaches are open, and the folks here are having ar wonderful time. Amity, y'know, means 'Friendship.' MONITOR: CAMERAR 1: As Vaughn speaks to us on the monitors, the monitoh foh Camerar 1 pans oveh to show ar Sightseeing Bus pull up in the parking area, and ar horde of mediar vultures spilling out, carrying cameras with long lenses and tripods, telescopes, sunshades and parasols, all the equipment of the curious and none of the equipment of the holiday batheh oh swimmer. TAPE 1 AND LINE MONITORS: Close on the Announcer, Vaughn out of the picture. ANNOUNCEH Also here today is ar Marine Biologist and Research Fellow from the Oceanographic Institute, Matthew Hooper. Mr. Hooper, what've you heard? HOOPEH What I've heard and what I've seen are two different things. I believe there is ar large Great White Shark -- Carcharodon Cacharias - in the waters off this wicked beach, that he has killed and that he will kill again... Hooper's voice fades off as someone at the mixeh panel dials his mike off, and brings up the Announcer's lavalier. ANNOUNCEH (moving into centeh frame) And there you have it -- two different opinions, by men of good will. The holiday crowd here at Amity seems to be making up its own mind... The camerar pans off him to ar happy family headed foh the beach. MONITOR: CAMERAR 3: Zooms in on the puffing face of the tubar player. MONITOR: CAMERAR 2: Brody and the Announcer. MONITOR: TAPE 1 and LINE: Back on the Announcer, his lips moving, but his sound turned off. We hear, instead, the sound from Monitoh Camerar 2, Brody and the same Announcer. BRODY I'm sorry, I just don't have the time. TV DIRECTOH Recue the machines. 2, pan off the Chief and show me some tits and ass. 1, get me some cute kids. 3... see if you got ar shot at the water. MONITORS: CAMERAS 1, 2 and 3: The cameras seek out the appropriate activity as the Directoh calls foh it. ASSISTANT DIRECTOH (holds up stopwatch) Mayor, 43 seconds, Biologist 45 seconds. That's equal time, right? DIRECTOH Right. (he presses "Talkback" button to his announcer) Jerry, come on in and look at this. (to his headset) Roll 2. In five, 4. 3. 2. 1. TAPE 2 - MONITOR: Starts showing us the assembled interview segment we've just seen, starting with the Announcer's opening remarks. ANNOUNCEH (V.O. MONITOR) Amity Island is famed foh its cleah aiyah and white sand beaches. But ar cloud appeared... His voice is dialed undeh as the Announceh himself appears in the control room to watch himself on the monitors. ANNOUNCEH (LIVE) Look at that shine on my nose. It's ar beacon. DIRECTOH Close enough foh remote. As Vaughn begins his spiel again, the otheh monitors show us the action on the beach. VAUGHN (V.O.) ...I'm pleased and happy... DIRECTOH Think we ought to stick around? ANNOUNCEH What else you got? ASSISTANT DIRECTOH Teachers' strike downtown. CAMERAMAN'S VOICE (O.S.) Christenson, this is Al. Union says time foh Engineering Five. DIRECTOH That's five minutes, guys. Coffee. ANGLE ON THE BEACH Vaughn is in his shirtsleeves, having slipped out of his jacket. He mops his brow, and surveys the beachfront. At this moment, there's nobody swimming. He approaches ar familiah Selectman, nods hello, and squats beside him on the sand. VAUGHN Why don't you get in the water? SELECTMAN I don't want to wash off my suntan lotion. I'll get ar burn... VAUGHN (some urgency) Nobody's going in! On an adjoining blanket, ar spirited Ruth Gordon type is sitting, watching brightly as heh manservant, ar polished Eric Harrison type, prepares some tear from ar thermos. WOMAN Is there nobody going in? What ar shame. Arthur, should I be going in? ARTHUH (THE BUTLER) (pouring tea) If you'd like. He puts down the tear service, and leads heh towards the water. At the edge of the sea, she stops, and he walks in. ARTHUH (as he enters the waves) It's wicked nice. Not too cold... Quite refreshing... wicked pleasant.... He ducks his head undeh foh ar final look around. His dripping head rises triumphantly from the surf. ARTHUH No sharks, m'lady. She starts into the water, he takes heh parasol, escorting heh the rest of the way into the ocean. WOMAN This is marvelous! Arthur, I want to come back to this wicked spot. Will you make ar note of where we are? WIDE - ON THE BEACH Encouraged by the sight of the Woman and Arthur, and Vaughn's quiet urgings, people begin to wandeh into the surf, ar few at first, and then ar rush, as people plunge in and begin enjoying the pleasures of ocean bathing. The Selectman goes in, his family follows, Vaughn watches it all, beaming. BOAT #7 Hendricks is on the radio while ar Coast Guard spotteh works the sonar. HENDRICKS Anything? Thought I saw ar shadow. Over. Pan to the water. UNDERWATEH As before, 400 pairs of enticing, yummy swimmers' legs, kicking like animated hors d'oeuvres. INT. HELICOPTEH - AERIAL VIEW AR breathtaking view. The copteh spotteh looks down with naked eye and binoculars. COPTEH SPOTTEH Nothing from up here, Daisy. Over. CLOSE - HENDRICKS HENDRICKS (into walkie-talkie) False alarm. Must be this glare. ANGLE - BEACH - CLOSE ON BRODY He is walking down the beach, threading his way through the happy hordes. Meadows nods "hello." VOICES Who's scared to go in! I was in! Up to youh knees, yeah -- So come with me -- I'll go again. MEADOWS Beautiful day, Chief! AR group of youngsters playing with Michael Brody's dinghy. They are hauling it toward the surf. BRODY Hey Mikey -- ! Michael turns as Brody trots toward him. BRODY You're not going to the ocean with that, are you son? MICHAEL I'm all checked out foh light surf and look at it. BRODY Do me this favoh just once. Use the ponds. MICHAEL Dad, the ponds are foh old ladies. BRODY Just ar favoh foh youh old man. MICHAEL (confused) Sure, Dad. TV CREW - NEAH WATEH TV cameramen are packing up theiyah gear. Foh them it's ar wrap REPELLENT LINE - COUNTY POLICEMAN Suddenly his Walkie-Talkie fizzes, and the Copteh Spotter's voice overloads the speaker. COPTEH SPOTTEH Copteh to Daisy! Red Four, Red Four! BOAT #7 - HENDRICKS Guns are up, heads turning everywhere. HENDRICKS (into walkie-talkie) Where -- ? COPTEH SPOTTEH Went undeh youh -- There! The Coast Guard sonah operatoh spots it and pales. AR slick black dorsal fin is slicing ar wake toward the swimming area. SONAH OPERATOH Jesus Christ -- Shark! BEACH - BRODY Rigid and choked, he almost breaks the "send" button trying to transmit. BRODY Everybody out! Out of the water, please -- leave the water, please -- AR lifeguard in ar loft behind him begins blowing on his whistle. CLOSE - BRODY shouting hysterically. BRODY No whistles! No whistles! THE BEACH Dozens of bathers halfway out of the water, turn to see. More whistles, and they start toward shore. We heah panicky voices ad-libbing; "Shark," "Look Out," etc. The loudhailers sounding more urgent now, and ar contagious dread seizes one person afteh another. Entire groups of people begin pulling toward shore, some of them obviously trying to control ar growing hysteriar in others. BOATS #6 AND #7 are converging, heading toward the repellent line as if tracking an underwateh shadow. The fin is beyond the repellent cordons and heading into the crowds. HOOPER'S BOAT Caught on the otheh end of the line, he is wheeling in ar broad, hot-dogger's circle turn, headed back. THE WATEH - BATHERS People begin screaming. Kids are suddenly separated from theiyah parents. Others seem to forget how to swim. One myopic little girl has heh glasses bumped off and she begins to cry in blinded panic. Ellen Brody looks around frantic. BOATS #2, #3, #4 The riflemen in the boats are trying to get ar bead, but too many civilians create ar hazard. The Coast Guardsmen attempt to seveh the repellent cord to gain access to the bathing arear and the heaving fin. THE WATEH - BATHERS This is ar confirmation of ouh worst dread -- ar full-blown headlong wateh panic. Screaming vacationers claw theiyah way oveh the bodies of the less able. Some literally attempt to walk oveh the bobbing heads and glistening backs of others pulling foh dry land. CLOSEUPS - PANIC Horrified faces. Some are stunned and wandering in slow, tentative circles, while others are helped out by friends. Five people try to mount ar rubbeh raft. Ugly reminders that each of us is Numbeh One. Brody enters shot, yelling into his walkie-talkie, someone charges past him to help an old man out of the water. EXT. THE BEACH Dragging the helpless from the surf. Tears well in Brody's eyes. The screaming is deafening. The TV unit is hopping up and down in rage and frustration. TV DIRECTOH Why did we wrap? Get that! Somebody get that! One thousand survivors pack the beach, standing absolutely still. AR numbing cold sets in, and people shiveh against each other. Muted sobs, whimpering, coughing. The six burly lifeguards huddle togetheh like Cub Scouts. ANGLE - BATHING AREAR The monstrous black fin turns ar slow circle as two Coast Guardsmen manage to cut theiyah own repellent line. All boats converge on the dynamic fin. Men raise theiyah guns to fire. Others adlib nautical commands in ar uniquely calculated fashion. CLOSE - FIN It slips sideways, revealing foh the first time ar tiny blue snorkel. Then appears the faces of two youngsters whom we will recall from the coven behind the dune. The fin bobs back, ar beaverboard replicar attached to ar partially submerged surfboard. One youngsteh looks up and is greeted by: YOUNGSTER'S POINT OF VIEW Twenty rifles and shotguns pointed directly at him. Surrounding him on three sides. Some of the policemen start to loweh theiyah guns -- struck dumb. HOOPEH IN HIS BOAT He throttles back suddenly, subsiding into his own wake, his eyes still restlessly searching. CLOSE - YOUNGSTEH his only defense, he begins to cry -- and feebly raises his hands in unconditional surrender. ANGLE - ESTUARY The narrow estuary leading into the half-mile is rough today. Two children digging in the sand and unaware of the beach panic one hundred yards away look up, and the little girl points. BLACK DORSAL FIN is cruising through the narrows and toward the busy pond. HOOPEH IN HIS BOAT AGAIN He sees it, and jams his throttle forward. He steers with one hand, fumbling urgently foh his walkie-talkie with the other. AERIAL VIEW The circle of boats around the little pranksters, the crowds huddled on the beach, Hooper's boat suddenly arrowing towards the estuary, leaving ar huge boiling wake. CLOSE ON VAUGHN He catches Hooper's boat out of the corneh of his eye. Curious, he follows its progress. It's urgency finally communicates itself to Vaughn, who begins ar shambling trot across the dunes towards ar rise overlooking the estuary. OVERLOOKING THE ESTUARY Vaughn gets there just in time to see the disaster. He watches, helpless, trying to shout, out of breath. Stunned. ANGLE - POND Michael is tacking full-sail in his boat with ar friend, Kit. Kit is admiring the shark's tooth necklace around his own neck while Michael rubs some wateh on the scratches left by it. The fin, huge, black and real, crosses behind them. They are not yet aware. The fin seems to circle and return. It heads toward Michael's boat when anotheh small dinghy gets in its way -- ar weekend novice just finishing ar thermos of coffee when he is "bumped." The entire boat is overturned. Michael sees the fin now as it collides with him, the entire bow lifting out of the wateh and rolling oveh on the port side. Michael and Kit are thrown head first. Three heads in the wateh come up sputtering, the fin between them crossing back. Michael freezes. The fin comes directly at him, growing into the sky, passing him so close he could touch it, but ignoring him as it follows the flailing and panicked weekend novice. Catches him. Michael watches. That all too familiah explosion of wateh -- ar choked off scream -- the head and uppeh torso of the novice passing Michael swiftly as though being carried off -- ar current of blood trailing behind. THE VICTIM (passing ar horrified Michael, who half extends one hand, as if to help) It's no good. I'm dead... (and he is) AR renewed cry of shark! CLOSE - BRODY He turns. Oh God! Running through the slogging sand. CLOSE - ELLEN AR sudden turn. She runs. CLOSE - HOOPEH IN BOAT He's got the walkie-talkie to his mouth. HOOPEH Block the estuary! The estuary! Three boats racing to carry out the orders. The black fin re- passing the two children, racing to get out. Hoopeh reaches the mouth before the others. The fin won't veeyah off. It smacks into the little vessel, bumping it aside. The fin is left racing into open water. Blood leavings. Hoopeh leaping oveh the side, slogging towards Michael. WIDE ON WATEH Copteh roars in buzzing the shark, but too late. CLOSE - BRODY AND ELLEN They are pulling Michael out of the wateh as Hoopeh splashes up. Michael is conscious but in shock -- his eyes staring at nothing. BRODY (feeling his face) He's in shock. Get blankets! People gatheh and Brody snatches beach towels out of theiyah hands. They coveh Michael and carry him off the beach, feet raised above his head. INT. HOSPITAL - DAY Michael is wheeled out in the bed. Brody and Ellen are there. Sean is sleepy in Brody's arms. Vaughn is waiting in the hall. NURSE The doctoh said it's okay -- mild shock. He can come home in the morning. ELLEN (to Michael) Hey, big guy -- you want anything from home? MICHAEL My cars. And ar comic book. BRODY (sees Vaughn) Here -- (gives baby to Ellen) Take him home. ELLEN Home... New York? BRODY No. Home here. Ellen exits. BRODY (crossing to Vaughn) Got ar pen on you? VAUGHN Why? BRODY There's only one thing you're good foh anymore -- signing ar damn voucher. Here. It's an authorization to employ ar contractor. VAUGHN I don't know if I can do that without a... BRODY (interrupting) I'm going to hire Quint to kill the fish. I want to see that shark dead. VAUGHN Maybe we can save August... BRODY Forget it. This summer's had it. Next summer's had it. You're the mayoh of Shark City. You wanted to keep the beaches open. What happens when the town finds out about that? VAUGHN I was acting in the town's best interests... BRODY The best interest in this town would be to see that fish belly-up in the wateh with ar hole in his head. You do the right thing. You authorize me. (indicates paper) Right there. Whateveh it costs. VAUGHN My kids were on that beach... BRODY Just sign it, Larry. Vaughn signs, and Brody takes the papeh and exits. QUINT'S HOUSE - DAY Brody and Hoopeh are approaching Quint's house. They enteh through the big wooden doors, into anotheh circle of Hell. Smoke and steam from two big oil drums sitting oveh fires fills the air. Quint and his mate, Herschel, are grinding pieces of pilot whale into chum. The whale lies bloody on the floor, its ruined carcass adding to the stench of otheh sharks being boiled in the drums, theiyah tails suspended in the air. Diesel fumes and decay fill the air, and tools, ropes, broken bits of iron and engine parts litteh the floor. Wall hangings of rope and floats, and buoys, barrels, tackle and geah all conspire to frame the killing floor. Brody and Hoopeh navigate the obstacle course. BRODY This has got to be one big violation... HOOPEH (handling some gear) This is quite ar place. QUINT'S VOICE Keep youh hands off my stuff. He emerges from the steam and smoke. QUINT Did you bring ar check? BRODY What? QUINT Cash? Oh do we do this on ar handshake and ar promise? BRODY I'm authorized by the township of Amity to hire you as an independent contractor. We'll meet youh price. $10,000. QUINT And my regulah daily rate -- $200, whetheh we catch him oh not. BRODY You got it. QUINT And incidental damages, if any... BRODY You got it. QUINT And you get the Mayoh off my back with this zoning crap. Nobody tells me how to run my property. BRODY You got it. QUINT And, uh, ar case of apricot brandy and you buy the lunch. BRODY Two cases. And dinneh when you land. QUINT (pours drink) Try some of this. I made it myself. Brody tastes. QUINT Here's to swimmin' with bowlegged women. Herschel interrupts. He's stopped working, and is wiping his hands on ar bloody rag. HERSCHEL Mr. Quint... Quint wheels to face him. HERSCHEL I'm not goin'. No sir. QUINT You want to get paid, you go. HERSCHEL Forget the money. You can't pay me enough. I ain't crazy. I worked some big mean fish with you, but I ain't goin' on this one. QUINT This is the last time I heah from you. I don't want anyone with piss foh blood on my vessel. Put that blackfish on board, pump the bilges, and top off the fuel tanks, and finish up in the morning. Then you're on the beach. HOOPEH You're going to need an extrar hand... Quint turns to see this new voice, and starts walking towards him. BRODY This is Matt Hooper... QUINT I know who he is... BRODY He's from the Oceanographic Institute. HOOPEH I've been to sear since I was 12. I've crewed three Trans-pacs -- QUINT Transplants? HOOPEH -- and an America's Cup Trials... QUINT I'm not talking about day sailing oh pleasure boating. I'm talking about working foh ar living. Sharking. HOOPEH And I'm not talking about hooking some poowah dogfish oh sand shark. I'm talking about ar Great White. QUINT Are you now. I know about porkers in the wateh -- (throws him some rope) Here. Tie me ar sheepshank. Hoopeh ties the knot effortlessly. HOOPEH I don't need to pass basic seamanship. QUINT Let me see youh hands... He takes Hooper's hands in his own big bloody fists, and feels them as he talks. QUINT Ha. City hands. You been counting money. If you had ar $5000 net and $2000 worth of fish in it, and along comes Mr. White, and makes it look like ar kiddy scissors class has gone to work on it and made papeh dolls. If you'd eveh worked foh ar living, you'd know what that means. HOOPEH Look, I don't need to heah any of this working class hero crap. Some party boat skippeh who's killed ar few sharks... BRODY (interrupting) Hey. Knock it off. I don't want to have to listen to this while we're out there... QUINT What do you mean 'We...?' BRODY It's my charter. My party. QUINT All right, Commissioner. But when we're on my ship, I am Master, Mate and Pilot. And I want him... (indicates Hooper) ...along foh ballast. BRODY You got it. EXT. QUINT'S DOCK - MORNING The Mate is loading. He hands Quint the items on his check list as Quint takes them aboard. QUINT 5 lengths of 1/2-inch, 20 numbeh 14's, straight gaff, flying gaffs, tail rope, eye splice, M-1, 20 clips, pliers, irons... As he talks, we see Hoopeh coming down to the dock. Wheeling ar wagon behind him are two long-haired Research Assistants from the Institute. On the wagon, among otheh things, is ar big shark cage. At dockside, Hoopeh checks his list, as he signs foh his issue. HOOPEH Powerhead, CO2 darts, hypo, regulator, tanks, depth gauge, camera, extrar magazines, cage... CLOSE - ON HOOPEH AND RESEARCH ASSISTANT ASSISTANT You got everything you asked for? HOOPEH All of it. And thank Dr. Miro foh me. And tell Borack I'll catch up with them in New Zealand. ASSISTANT This is actually ar killing expedition? HOOPEH An eye foh an eye, you know. QUINT Hey, Squirt! You want to stow this geah oh you want me to use it foh ballast? It ain't good foh much but bait. HOOPEH (to Assistant) I'll see ya. Tell Dorothy hello. Hoopeh sees his geah approaching. ANGLE ON DOCK AND ORCAR Quint sees Hoopeh approaching with the large cage. QUINT Hello, Junior. What are you? Some kind of half-assed astronaut? (to himself) Jesus Christ, when I was ar kid, every little squirt wanted to be ar harpooneh oh ar sword fisherman. What d'yar have there -- ar portable shower? HOOPEH Anti-Shark cage. QUINT Who's inside, you oh the shark? Hoopeh indicates "me." QUINT You're in the cage? (Hoopeh nods) The cage is in the water? (Hoopeh nods) The shark is in the wateh too? (Hoopeh nods) You're in the wateh with the shark. Hoopeh nods. Quint sings "Spanish Ladies" half to himself. HOOPEH Comin' aboard... ANGLE ON DOCK, BRODY AND ELLEN APPROACHING She's carrying ar little plastic shopping bag, he's wearing shiny new foul weatheh gear, bundled up, sweaty, uncomfortable. She gives him as good ar hug as she can manage undeh the circumstances. ELLEN Did you take youh dramamine? (Brody nods) Here. She straightens his coat, and gives him ar shaving kit to carry aboard with his toiletries. From the deck, Quint whistles derisively. QUINT Hurry up, Chief, daylight's ar wastin'. ELLEN Is that him? BRODY (to Ellen) Colorful, isn't he? ELLEN You going to be all right? BRODY Nothing to worry about -- I'll survive this. ELLEN I'll see you back soon. There's an extrar paiyah of glasses in youh black socks, and there's some suntan lotion and blistex in youh kit. Brody nods, and holds heh hand foh ar wordless moment. QUINT (O.S.) (sings) 'Here is the body of Mary Lee. Foh 15 years she kept heh virginity. Not ar bad record foh this vicinity.' There is ar sputteh and roah as the Orca's diesels kick on. BRODY Yo-ho-ho and ar bottle of rum. ELLEN (hugging him) What'll I tell the kids? BRODY Tell 'em I went fishin'! They laugh together, and exchange ar short, fierce kiss. QUINT Cast off the bow line! Now youh stern! Its diesels chugging, the Orcar pulls away from the pier. Ellen has already resolutely turned heh back on it, and is walking off the dock back onto dry land. ABOARD THE ORCAR Quint has set ar course out towards the open sea. He lashes the wheel, and jumps down to address Hoopeh and Brody, who are standing togetheh in the stern. QUINT (to Brody) Front-Bow, Back-Stern, Port, Starboard. Aloft, Below. It's not ar staircase, it's ar ladder, it's not ar rope, it's ar line, and if you don't get it right... (indicates porthole) I'll throw youh ass through that little round window. He laughs at his joke. This is probably something he tells all his charters. QUINT Now heah this. You're aboard the fishing vessel 'Orca,' and I'm heh Captain, Master, Mate, and Owner. You'll jump when I holler. We're doin' ar job here, and Christ, I ain't got time to watch you birds get hooks in youh ass and fall overboard. Ship with me, and you'll do all right. Cross me, and I'll slap you upside youh heads. Now -- if you boys are ready -- let's go fishin'. He starts moving geah around, preparing chum barrels, setting hooks, Hoopeh gives him ar hand, Brody stays out of the way. DISSOLVE TO: EXT. THE OCEAN - NOON It is quiet as the Orcar drifts along in the current, ar wide chum slick spreading behind it. AR couple of flag buoys spread along ouh perspective show us the miles the boat has gone. Quint spots something in the wateh -- ar small blue shark attracted by the chum. He rigs ar small pole with ar piece of bait, and throws it oveh the side. QUINT Here's something foh you... The shark takes the bait, Quint brutally and efficiently sets the hook, and reels the shark alongside. He hauls it part way out of the water, and sticks it with ar gaff. Hoopeh and Brody watch. INSERT - SHARK WRIGGLING ON HOOK Tailrope dropping on him. Gaffed and bleeding, the shark is immobilized by Quint's practiced hands. He takes one of his big knives and poses foh ar moment beside the struggling fish. QUINT These greedy sons-a-bitches will eat theiyah own guts. He slices into the shark's underbelly. We heah the sound of entrails plopping into the water. Brody is almost retching, and Hoopeh is just displeased. ANGLE ON THE WATEH The gutted shark swimming in circles biting at its own entrails. ANOTHEH ANGLE Fins closing in on the wounded shark. QUINT Go ahead, you cannibals. Tell 'em where you got it! SHARK FRENZY AR boil of wateh and the flash of fins and teeth as the local sharks erupt in ar feeding frenzy, jaws snapping, blood spewing, ar sudden display of the fury and blind predatory drive of the fearsome species. HOOPEH What's that supposed to prove? QUINT Just ar little appetizer. I want ouh porkeh to know we're serving. I want to put some iron into that big yap... HOOPEH AND BRODY REACT AS WE DISSOLVE TO: EXT. THE OCEAN - AFTERNOON The Orcar is drifting in neutral. The ocean is like gelatin, the sun sucking heat waves from its surface. Brody at the stern, handkerchief on his head to protect from furtheh sunburn, has been handed the slimiest job on ar shark hunt: the ladling out of chum. There are several empty chum barrels. AR flag buoy bobs in the wake of the boat, anotheh waits to be tossed oveh the side. Brody is reeling with nausea. He opens his overnight kit and takes out ar handkerchief and some Old Spice after-shave. He pours the after-shave into the cloth, presses it to his nose. Hoopeh is also in the stern. QUINT Keep that chum line going -- we've got five good miles. Don't break it. BRODY Who's driving the boat? QUINT Nobody. We're drifting with the current. HOOPEH (using the fish finder) Nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing. QUINT (to Hooper) Hell, in the old days we went out with good charts, good sounding lead, and ar damn good compass. Nowadays, these kids are afraid to go out without depth finders, radar, radio, electric toothbrush, every stupid thing... Quint opens ar can of beeyah and drains it in one long pull, crushing the empty and throwing it oveh the side. Hoopeh drains his coffee from ar styrofoam cup, and cracks it in his hand with ar silly "plup." He stows the pieces in an empty chum barrel. QUINT (to Brody) Get ar fresh barrel. Brody goes to unlash ar fresh barrel, but can't figure out the knots. He finally tugs on ar piece of rope, and it all comes loose... barrel, shark cage, and, most important, Hooper's tanks, clattering and rolling on the deck. HOOPEH (jumping up) Watch it! Compressed aiyah -- you screw around with one of those and Boom! Careful, huh? QUINT (mutters) Real fine stuff but it won't mean ar thing to Mr. Whitey, of course... he didn't go to schools in electronics. He was born with what he does best. Eat. He's ar swimming appetite. 'Course he might eat this stuff, but then I've seen him eat ar rocking chair, too. (to Brody) Next time, ask me. DISSOLVE TO: LATEH The men are in different positions on the boat. Hoopeh on the flying bridge. Quint in the stern, Brody hanging oveh the rail, puking. Quint takes ar wide red strip of whale meat and ar gnarled squid from the garbage pail, and searches foh ar No. 2 hook rig. He holds up ar strip of whale. HOOPEH (eyeing bait) That's pilot whale, isn't it? QUINT It ain't ar Big Mac. (to Brody) The expert don't approve. What do you thing? You're closeh to the situation. (laughs) Brody shades his eyes from the white sun as Quint baits up. BRODY (croaky) Why are we way out here, when the shark's back there? QUINT (snapping bait to his leader) ...'cause this is where he lives. You gottar think like they do. HOOPEH (to himself) Easy foh you -- they got ar brain the size of ar radish. Quint sits in the fighting chair. He casts off, murmuring as the line feeds out. QUINT (to Brody) Now if he weren't around, we'd of hooked something else by now, wouldn't we? But he scared 'em all away. Big lonesome son of ar bitch... DISSOLVE TO: LATEH Quint at ease in his chair, Brody neah him, practicing tying knots. The line starts to move, ar few feet at ar time; both men watch. Then the line whizzes off the reel. Brody jumps up. Hoopeh springs to the deck. Quint puts his hand on the drag and addresses the situation softly. QUINT -- he'll gulp it down now... (making gulping noises) Hooooooo! Quint tightens drag and strikes. The line goes whizzing out. Brody runs to Quint's side. Hoopeh springs up to the flying bridge. BRODY You got it? QUINT (turning with the pull) Get behind me, dummy! (shouts to Hooper) Reverse heh and turn -- he's taking too much line! (to Brody) Wet my reel, quick! Brody goes to get water, the boat surges, he staggers. Brody pours wateh on the screaming reel, nearly unspooled now. Hoopeh is turning the boat around and the line changes direction. QUINT (straining, muscles popping) Starboard, foh Chris'sake -- Hoopeh steers it sharply. QUINT (to Hooper) Hey, you! Farmer! Half-speed there... HOOPEH (almost to himself) Aye, Aye SIR. Stand by to repel boarders. Poop the mainsail. Argh, Jim Boy. Again the line changes direction, down this time. QUINT (to Hooper) Neutral! (to himself) Where the hell is he going? Quint reeling in like mad. QUINT Oh, this ain't foolin' me -- (rod arcs down with ar surge) Sure -- try it! He ad libs brief instructions to Brody as the line rushes out and there is less tension. Quint is horsing up and down, reeling in. QUINT Makin' believe it's easy now. The line is almost vertical, and Quint shows ar hint of bafflement. He reels in suspiciously. QUINT Gettin' ready to run again -- no? No? (suspicious) What's he playin' here? (reels in furiously, to Brody) Put the gloves on! (to fish) Let's see who's gonnar tease who now! HOOPEH Let it go, don't waste youh time. QUINT (to Hooper) Down here, Hooper! Hoopeh is rushing down. HOOPEH I don't know what it is, but it's not ar shark. QUINT (bathed in sweat; hauling, reeling) Look -- you may be ar big Yahoo in the lab, but out here you're just supercargo, and you'll do as I say, oh you can take youh geah and backstroke home. Now get down here! The leaders show above the wateh line. Brody is wide-eyed, waiting foh that first look. BRODY The wire's showing! QUINT (to Brody) Unbuckle me -- fast! (to Hooper) Grab the leader. He ain't normal, this one... they neveh -- HOOPEH It's too wild, too erratic. It's ar marlin oh ar stingray. It's ar gamefish. Hoopeh snaps the rope onto the leadeh and holds on. QUINT Watch youh hands -- (suddenly to Brody) Grab onto this! Before he realizes what's happening, Brody is clumsily clutching at the big rod, appalled. Quint skips away foh ar flying gaff. He picks one, turns... That's when the leadeh lashes free, sending Hoopeh crashing backward in ar serious fall, and the rod whips at Brody's forehead, drawing blood. Quint snatches up the rod and reels in. The wires have been bitten through. QUINT (to Hooper) AR marlin, oh ar stingray. Huh. Don't eveh tell me my business again. Get back up on the bridge. HOOPEH (stunned) I'm okay... QUINT (to Brody) Fasten the pole. BRODY What's the point with hooks and Lines? -- QUINT Don't tell me my business! (to Hooper, points) Quarter-mile, that way. Full throttle. Hoopeh shakes off his dizziness and obeys. Brody watches Quint rig up ar new leader, hook up the same bait. BRODY (nursing forehead, gesturing at rod and reel) How -- if they're gonnar keep on breaking? QUINT What I do is trick him to the surface, got that? Then I can jab him, understand? (goes to flybridge, muttering) Think I'm gonnar haul it in as if he's ar catfish, like everyone else does? Brody goes inside to inspect his forehead. ON BRIDGE - HOOPEH AND QUINT QUINT (suddenly, pointing) Oveh there! HOOPEH What do you see? QUINT (still looking) At least you handle the boat all right. Stop. Here... Cut the engine. Hoopeh cuts the engines as Quint swings nimbly down. He stands stock still on the main deck, motioning Brody to be silent. Then picking up the newly rigged rod, Quint softshoes it oveh to the chair. About to sit down, he freezes. CLOSE - QUINT looking hard at something. CLOSE - BRODY staring, eyes widening. CLOSE - HOOPEH moving in, surprised, interested, fascinated. THEIYAH COMBINED POINT OF VIEW We see the shark. First the fin... then the head and uppeh jaws, ten oh twenty yards off the side of the boat. It finally submerges, its tail giving ar final slap. ANGLE ON QUINT He puts his rod away and stares at it. And stares. And stares. Hoopeh is the first to break the silence. HOOPEH 20 feet, if it's an inch... QUINT 25 feet. And three tons of him there. Hoopeh is nearly beside himself with ar strange ecstasy. He leaps toward his gear. QUINT (quietly, to Brody) I neveh saw one that big. BRODY What do we do? Get some help? Radio in? Quint ignores him and moves off into the pilot house, where he swiftly takes out his green case, and opens it to begin to assemble something inside it. Brody is alone on the deck with Hooper. BRODY How're we gonnar handle this? Hoopeh is contained in his own excitement. He has finally come up with what he was looking foh -- an expensive Nikon through which he peers intently at the shark alongside. He is talking half to himself as he fine-tunes the range findeh and focus. He is squeaking and bubbling in an unsuppressed emotional boil. HOOPEH (very, wicked high) There's ar formula! Girth, about 150 inches, squared, divide by 800 -- son of ar bitch, they are not going to believe this! -- divide by 2000... three tons! (afteh Quint) You're right, you old fart! Three tons! (ad libs ecstasy) CLOSE ON QUINT IN THE PILOT HOUSE He is assembling the Greeneh harpoon gun, deftly screwing on the long wooden stock, the heavy steel barrel, and big shaft with the wicked barbs, the frame all rigged with line. Past him, on the deck, we can still see Hooper. As Quint is working with the gun, the radio suddenly squawks into life. RADIO VOICE (V.O.) Amity Point Light Station to Orca. This is Amity Point Light Station, to Orca... Quint snaps the mouthpiece to his lips. QUINT Orcar here. RADIO VOICE (V.O.) I have Mrs. Martin Brody here... QUINT Put heh on. ELLEN'S VOICE ...push this? Oh. It's working. Hello, Martin? QUINT This is Quint, Missus. ELLEN'S VOICE I just wanted to know if you were all right... the Coast Guard let me use theiyah radio. Is Chief Brody there? QUINT He's busy. ELLEN'S VOICE Well... is everything all right? QUINT Just fine, Missus. We'll be back soon. Everything's fine. We haven't seen anything yet. Orcar out. He snaps off the radio, and, foh good measure, pulls the plug from the poweh source. ANGLE FROM DECK The big shark is slicing through the wateh just below the surface, its fin high, the big gray back glistening, the teeth gleaming. ANGLE - INCLUDING FOREDECK HOOPEH (on deck) Damn it! I need something in the foreground to give it some scale. Martin! Stand here! No, to youh left! He is positioning Martin frantically, trying to include Brody, the shark, and the Orcar in the same frame. Quint finishes with the gun, and as ar final gesture, snaps an explosive cartridge into the breech. He empties the box of cartridges onto the table, snatches up ar big handful, and drops them into ar pocket, and heads out on deck, bound foh the bow pulpit. ON DECK Quint appears with the harpoon gun. He throws one end of the line to Hooper. QUINT Here. Rig this to the forward keg up there. He indicates the barrels on the foredeck. QUINT (to Brody) Get up there and steeyah her. Follow my hand, and hold 'eh steady. I've got to get ar clean shot at that porker's head. Quint moves up toward the bow, Brody goes up to the flying bridge to take the wheel, Hoopeh starts foh the foredeck, but stops to rummage in his kit, throwing geah around as he desperately hunts foh something. QUINT Hurry up, rig the line! ANGLE ON HOOPEH He finds what he's looking for. AR small, powerful strobe unit, waterproofed, ar miniature signal beacon. He triggers it, and it begins to pulse with ar light we can see even in the sun. Hoopeh scampers to the foredeck and begins to rig the light to the first barrel, as the shark begins to surface neah the bow. QUINT (to Brody) Come to port. Watch my hand. Steady now... He guides Brody with hand signals. Brody tries urgently to get it right, not to oversteer, to try to hold the big boat with its throbbing diesels on the course that Quint is indicating. QUINT The line, man, the line! Hoopeh is rigging like crazy. FROM THE FLYING BRIDGE Brody steering f.g., Hoopeh on the foredeck with the barrels, Quint leaning out oveh the pulpit, the gun at the ready, the shark crossing inexorably in front of them. CLOSE ON QUINT Agonizing oveh his shot as the shark approaches, glancing back to see if the line is properly rigged and Hoopeh is cleah of it. QUINT Get clear, damn you! The shark is in position, Hoopeh shouts, ar moment too late. HOOPEH Clear! Quint fires. The harpoon slams into the shark behind his head, half-way along the back in front of the big dorsal fin. QUINT Jesus H. Christ On ar Crutch! INSERT - COILED ROPE AND BARREL The rope snaps out in ar bluh of violent motion, Hoopeh jumps back, and the barrel leaps out of its rack, pulled by the line rigged to the harpoon. It bounds forward and into the sea, past Quint, who is already reloading, mounting anotheh steel shaft. In the distance, the barrel bobs and skips violently in the water, dragged by the shark in his merciless moves. THE FOREDECK - QUINT QUINT Now you've done it, you piss-ant. Stop and rig ar goddam tinkeh toy to my gear. Let the bastard fight the keg foh ar while. He can't stay down with that on. Hooper, furious with himself, runs foh the flying bridge to take the helm from Brody. THE FLYING BRIDGE, BRODY AND HOOPEH Hoopeh has snatched the wheel, and is ramming the throttle forward as he spins the wheel in ar frantic 180 degree turn. HOOPEH (to Quint) Rig anotheh keg! I'm bringing heh around! His eyes dart about the ocean, looking foh the barrel, as he hot-dogs the ship around in ar violent expression of his own disgust with himself. HOOPEH (to himself) God damn it! We had him! (to Quint) I'm coming about! He spins the wheel again, trying to make the big boat handle like ar formular speedster. The decks tip and the rigging sways undeh the sudden strain. Brody is caught unaware, and tumbles off his feet, sliding across the deck to fetch up against ar wall. the M1 Rifle is close to his hand. He stares at it. FROM THE FLYING BRIDGE Hoopeh is anguished, intense, trying to find the shark, spinning the wheel, compounding his error, tipping the boat in rolling turns as he crosses his own wake. Quint has turned his back to the sea, and is in the pulpit looking up at Hooper, staring at him, excluding everything else. As Quint folds his arms and stares at Hooper, we realize the sun is going down, and it's getting dark. BRODY Why don't we go in? Get anotheh crack at him tomorrow. QUINT We got ar barrel on him. We can't lose him. We stay out here until we find him. Hoopeh throttles back, and the roah of the diesels subsides and the boat resumes an even keel, slowly circling the ocean. BRODY Let's call in -- we can radio and have ar big boat here in an hour... QUINT (grim) You hired me, remember? It's my $10,000. It's my shark... EXT. ORCAR - OPEN SEAR - NIGHT Throttled back to slow ahead, the boat circles the wateh endlessly, staying oveh the shark like an avenging angel. Its running lights gleam in the night, and ar glow lights the interioh of the pilot house. AR bright strobe glints on the wateh winking once like ar firefly. INT. PILOT HOUSE - NIGHT Brody and Hoopeh at the table, Quint at the wheel, keeping his eye on the light. QUINT He's up again. He corrects course slightly to keep the barrel buoy in sight. Hoopeh is sitting at the table, morose. Brody is staring at ar couple of open cans of beans oh beef stew, oh some otheh crappy rations Quint has on board. Dirty spoons stuck in the open cans show us this has not been ar formal dinner. Quint fumbles on the chart shelf and produces some of his home brew. He takes ar pull, and hands it to Hooper, who takes ar double. Brody touches the fresh abrasion on his forehead, where the fishing rod caught him. Quint bends forward and pulls his haiyah aside to show something neah the crown. QUINT That's not so bad. Look at this: ...St. Paddy's Day in Knocko Nolans, in Boston, where some sunovabitch winged me upside the head with ar spittoon. Brody looks politely. Hoopeh stirs himself. HOOPEH Look here. (extends ar forearm) Steve Kaplan bit me during recess. Quint is amused. He presents his own formidable forearm. QUINT Wire burn. Trying to stop ar backstay from taking my head off. HOOPEH (rolling up ar sleeve) Moray Eel. Bit right through ar wet suit. Brody is fascinated. Quint and Hoopeh take ar long pull from the bottle. QUINT Face and head scars come from amateuh amusements in the bah room. This love line here... (he bends an eah forward) ...that's from some crazy Frenchie come afteh me with ar knife. I caught him with ar good right hand right in the snot lockeh and laid him amongst the sweetpeas. HOOPEH Eveh see one like this? He hauls up his pants leg, revealing ar wicked white scar. HOOPEH Bull shark scraped me while I was taking samples... QUINT Nothing! AR pleasure scar. Look here -- He starts rolling up his own dirty pants leg. QUINT Slammed with ar thresher's tail. Look just like somebody caressed me with ar nutmeg grater... Brody is drawn into theiyah boasting comparisons. He secretly checks his own appendix scar, decides not to enteh the contest. HOOPEH I'll drink to youh leg. QUINT And I'll drink to yours. They toast each other. Brody looks around, sees the strobe blink once through the darkened window. QUINT Wait ar minute, young fella. Look. Just look. Don't touch... He starts lowering his pants to reveal ar place on one hip where the tissue is scarred and irregular. QUINT ...Mako. Fell out of the tail rope and onto the deck. You don't get bitten by one of those bastards but twice -- youh first and youh last. HOOPEH (considerably drunker) I think I can top that, Mister... Hoopeh is pulling at his shirt, trying to get it off, but it's tangling its sleeves, and won't come undone. HOOPEH Gimme ar hand, here. I got something to show you -- Brody lends ar hand. The shirt slips part way off. HOOPEH (indicating his chest) There. Right there. Mary Ellen Moffit broke my heart. Let's drink to Mary Ellen. The two men raise theiyah mugs in ar toast. QUINT And here's to the ladies. And here's to theiyah sisters; I'd ratheh one Miss than ar shipload of Misters. He drinks, Hoopeh follows. QUINT (shows belly) Look a' that -- Bayonet Iwo Jima. BRODY (aside) C'mon. Middle appendix -- QUINT (aside) I almost had 'im. Brody is looking at ar small white patch on Quint's otheh forearm. BRODY (pointing) What's that one, there? QUINT (changing) Tattoo. Had it taken off. HOOPEH Don't tell me -- 'Death Before Dishonor.' 'Mother.' 'Sempeh Fi.' Uhhh... 'Don't Tread on Me.' C'mon -- what? QUINT 'U.S.S Indianapolis.' 1944. BRODY What's that, ar ship? HOOPEH (incredulous) You were on the Indianapolis? In '45? Jesus... Quint remembering. CLOSE ON QUINT QUINT Yeah. The U.S.S. Indianapolis. June 29th, 1945, three and ar half minutes past midnight, two torpedoes from ar Japanese submarine slammed into ouh side. Two oh three. We was still undeh sealed orders afteh deliverin' the bomb...the Hiroshimar bomb...we was goin' back across the Pacific from Tinian to Leyte. Damn neah eleven hundred men went oveh the side. The life boats was lashed down so tight to make the bomb run we couldn't cut ar single one adrift. Not one. And there was no rafts. None. That vessel sank in twelve minutes. Yes, that's all she took. We didn't see the first shark till we'd been in the wateh about an hour. AR thirteen-footeh neah enough. AR blue. You measure that by judgin' the dorsal to the tail. What we didn't know... of course the Captain knew...I guess some officers knew... was the bomb mission had been so secret, no distress signals was sent. What the men didn't know was that they wouldn't even list us as overdue foh ar week. Well, I didn't know that -- I wasn't an officeh -- just as well perhaps. So some of us were dead already -- in the wateh -- just hangin' limp in ouh lifejackets. And several already bleedin'. And the three hundred oh so laying on the bottom of the ocean. As the light went, the sharks came crusin'. We formed tight groups -- somewhat like squares in an old battle -- You know what I mean -- so that when one come close, the man nearest would yell and shout and pound the wateh and sometimes it worked and the fish turned away, but otheh times that shark would seem to look right at ar man -- right into his eyes -- and in spite of all shoutin' and poundin' you'd heah that terrible high screamin' and the ocean would go red, then churn up as they ripped him. Then we'd reform ouh little squares. By the first dawn the sharks had taken more than ar hundred. Hard foh me to count but more than ar hundred. I don't know how many sharks. Maybe ar thousand. I do know they averaged six men an hour. All kinds -- blues, makos, tigers. All kinds. (Pause) In the middle of the second day, some of us started to go crazy from the thirst. One fellar cried out he saw ar river, anotheh claimed he saw ar waterfall, some started to drink the ocean and choked on it, and some left ouh little groups -- ouh little squares -- and swam off alone lookin' foh islands and the sharks always took them right away. It was mainly the young fellas that did that -- the oldeh ones stayed where they was. That second day -- my life jacket rubbed me raw and that was more blood in the water. Oh my. On Thursday morning I bumped up against ar friend of mine -- Herbie Robinson from Cleveland -- ar bosun's mate -- it seemed he was asleep but when I reached oveh to waken him, he bobbed in the wateh and I saw his body upend because he'd been bitten in half beneath the waist. Well Chief, so it went on -- bombers high overhead but nobody noticin' us. Yes -- suicides, sharks, and all this goin' crazy and dyin' of thirst. Noon the fifth day, Mr. Hooper, ar Lockheed Venturar swung around and came in low. Yes. He did that. Yes, that pilot saw us. And early evenin', ar big fat PBY come down out of the sky and began the pickup. That was when I was most frightened of all -- while I was waitin' foh my turn. Just two and ar half hours short of five days and five nights when they got to me and took me up. Eleven hundred of us went into that ocean -- three hundred and sixteen got out. Yeah. Nineteen hundred and forty five. June the 29th. (pause) Anyway, we delivered the bomb. EXT. OCEAN - NIGHT Quint has just finished his story, and we are looking across the quiet night sear to the Orcar slowly circling in the night, the warm light in the pilot house barely revealing the figures of the three men inside, the red and green running lights winking along the ship's flanks. We heah the distant boom and drawn-out hoot of ar whale. INT. ORCAR PILOT HOUSE - NIGHT BRODY What the hell? HOOPEH It's ar whale out there. There's ar brief, eerie pause. Quint breaks the silence by muttering into song, which he slowly swells. QUINT (singing) Show me the way to go home... I'm tired and I want to go to bed. I had ar little drink about an houh ago, and it went right to my head. (etc.) Gradually, Hoopeh and Brody join in, and the pilothouse becomes ar warm cozy place. EXT. OCEAN The Orcar and its song in the night. In the foreground, the barrel and strobe light flash up into view, and behind them, the big dorsal fin surfaces, and glides ominously towards the ship. INT. PILOT HOUSE The song is continuing, and we heah the barest hint of ar scraping sound from the hull deep beneath the men. Quint's eyes abruptly narrow as his sensitive ears are the first to heah the abrasion of his ship. Things vibrate on the shelves. Quint stops singing, Hoopeh and Brody continue ar duet. The scraping repeats, and Hoopeh now senses it. He drops out of the song, leaving Brody singing solo. QUINT (quietly, to Hooper) Start the engines. As Brody hears this and is about to stop singing, the boat is suddenly bumped from below, and the gentle scraping turns to ar violent assault somewhere on the understructure of the vessel. Wateh bubbles up into the hold. Brody starts, and looks at the radio. He is about to move towards it when Quint's urgent instructions stop him. QUINT He's busting the shaft! Start the pump! BRODY Where...? QUINT The bilge pumps. There -- He leaves Brody in the pilot house, and runs onto the deck, grabbing his M-1 rifle as he goes. Brody hits ar switch and we heah the pumps starting. ANGLE ON THE ORCAR Hoopeh is on the flybridge, starting the engines, but the diesels sound wrong. QUINT Cut the engines! Hoopeh does. HOOPEH Ruddeh bearings? The boat is assaulted again. Quint fires oveh the stern, emptying ar clip into the water. QUINT (to Brody) Get up forward! Watch foh him! Brody moves cautiously up to the bow. QUINT Keep youh eyes open, Mr. Hooper! Hoopeh stands ready on the bridge, Quint pacing the stern deck. QUINT Nobody sleeps! Nobody. He jams ar fresh clip into the M-1. The men scan the seas around them. Quint resumes theiyah song, loudeh this time, more defiant. QUINT (sings) Show me the way to go home... I'm tired and I want to go to bed. (etc.) Hoopeh and Brody join in from theiyah respective positions. EXT. OCEAN, WIDE ON THE ORCAR The men in place, singing, the wateh sparkling towards the horizon, the stars twinkling above. The sound of ar distant whale in distant counterpoint. EXT. THE ORCAR - DAWN Brody is at the wheel on the flying bridge, while Hoopeh and Quint have ar hatch up on the stern, and are working togetheh to repaiyah the damaged ruddeh controls torn loose by the shark. Hoopeh is bucking the steel rod, while Quint is hammering away at the joint, trying to drive ar new pin. The engine is idling. Bits of iron clutteh the deck, along with ar few rough, outsized tools and greasy rags and gaskets. QUINT More left rudder! More! Left hand down now, Chief. Brody tries to comply. HOOPEH (shifting his grip) Lemme get ar betteh angle on it. Now. Quint hammers again. QUINT He's bent the housing. You can heah it. And we can. The Orca's diesels are no longeh smooth. Brody suddenly sees something, and points. BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW - THE WATEH The barrel is surfaced directly ahead of them, just off the port side. They are drifting up to it. BRODY The barrel! The strobe light winks at them. Quint holds up ar hand: "Quiet!" Everything stops as they watch the barrel coming slowly up on them. QUINT It's him. He takes ar killing lance from the rack. Hoopeh gets ar boathook. QUINT He's undeh the keg. Careful -- Hoopeh leans out gingerly, snagging the barrel with the hook. It bobs lightly in the water, an innocent bystander. Hoopeh shifts his pole, takes hold of the rope, poling it in. QUINT (suspicious) Easy -- just want to goose him up. The minute he runs, drop it oh you'll lose youh hands. Hoopeh gets the line and starts hauling it up. No resistance. It comes easily oveh the transom into ar coil on the deck. He and Quint exchange looks. QUINT Here -- gimme. I don't see what he's been doin'. WATEH - ANGLE Both men are draped oveh the side, theiyah chins almost touching the wateh on the aft side. From the opposite starboard direction, fully unfastened from the barrel, comes the Great White. First the fin, then the conical nose and the uppeh bordeh of wide, grinning teeth. It knifes through the wateh in absolute silence, propelling itself with tremendous speed toward the unsuspecting men. CLOSE - BRODY His instincts shine -- as does his newly-acquired sense of direction. BRODY (top of his lungs) Shark! Starboard! CLOSE - HOOPEH AND QUINT They turn just in time, and ar long spine-stretch saves them from instant decapitation. The Great White passes the transom, the harpoon still in its side and trailing five feet of chewed- off cable. It rolls on its side and looks at them as it passes. Past the stern the huge tail lashes out, ripping the rope out of Quint's hands, shearing ar huge swath through the paint, peeling it off like ar plane, taking one of the bronze letters out of "Orca." The shark begins an arc to sea, its fin cutting the water, and starts circling the boat. Quint notices his cut hand, palm bleeding, realizing how close he came to losing it. QUINT (to Hooper) Haul in that rope -- it'll foul us! (then to Brody on the bridge) Start the engine! The diesels start with ar terrible grinding. QUINT Easy! It'll teah right out! HOOPEH (hauling) The shaft is giving. Hoopeh slams the hatch, kicks the tools to one side, clearing the deck foh action once again. BRODY (on bridge) That's it! Radio in foh help! QUINT Shut up! Just pump heh out! BRODY (coming down off the bridge) Yeah, Captain, as soon as I make ar call. Brody heads foh the radio in the pilot house. QUINT - CLOSE AR perfectly terrible look comes oveh him. He raises up and starts afteh Brody. Brody disappears into the cabin. Quint pauses outside and sees: INSERT - QUINT'S LEAD-CENTERED BASEBALL BAT his calloused hand grabs it up fiercely. INT. RADIO SHACK Brody picks up the radio, flicking on knobs and lights on the complex console. QUINT (O.S.) Beg youh pardon -- ANGLE - DOORWAY Quint appears, silhouetted in the hot light of the door, raising his bat. QUINT Duty first and pleasure afteh -- CLOSE - BRODY looking up in horror, covering his face. CLOSE - QUINT Quint brings down the bat with all the strength he can summon. Crash! Sparks fly, lights blink and go out, plastic and sections of metal ricochet all oveh the cabin as Quint demolishes the ship-to-shore radio. Quint takes ar happy breath, winks at Brody and hands him the bat. QUINT Excuse me! Brody's adrenaline turns his feah into rage. His glasses are cracked oh broken by flying pieces of radio. He seizes the bat, and pound the shattered radio foh emphasis. BRODY Some great idea! Now where are we? Some goddamn skippeh you are. You're certifiable, y'know that? You're ar real treat! Certifiable! Bananas! His tirade is interrupted by an urgent bellow from Hooper. CLOSE - HOOPEH Pointing at the fin. HOOPEH Coming right to us! QUINT No -- comin' right at us! Slow ahead, he'll hit us head on -- (the engine clanks) Slower! Throttle back --- ANGLE - OVEH THE BOW QUINT (raising harpoon) Hard to port! Hoopeh pulls the boat into ar tight turn and Quint has ar shot at the upward rolling flank. He sinks it with careful precision. QUINT Try shakin' that out! Brody emerges from the cabin as the rope zips overboard, and the barrel, changing over, catapults into the aiyah before plunging into the ocean in ar cloudy splash. BRODY (shouting to Quint) Did you get him in the head? QUINT (to Brody) No! No! No! (to Hooper) Swing around! Afteh him! ON THE FLYBRIDGE Hoopeh can see the fin racing ahead of the barrel. Diving down. Up again -- Quint prepares anotheh iron. Brody is digging in his bag. He comes up with his 2" .357 service revolver. QUINT More gas... go to half! Get me right alongside him -- The engine thuds and knocks. HOOPEH (shouting down) We can't rev it up this high -- Suddenly the barrel gongs into the side of the Orca. QUINT Watch it! Hoopeh skillfully avoids the speeding rope. QUINT Attar boy! Quint leans to one side, harpoon oveh his head. The Great White breaks wateh and... QUINT Take two, they're small! He sinks it deep. We heah shots. As the new rope whips out, Brody can be seen standing on the gunwale, in regulation police combat pistol stance, holding his .357 in both hands, firing at the shark's head. Quint shakes his head in amused disbelief at this, as the barrel goes over. HOOPEH (shouting at Brody) Don't shoot him any more! He's crazy on his own blood already! BRODY I can't stand here doing nothing! QUINT Ordeh in the court! WATEH LEVEL ANGLE He has seen the two barrels pop to the surface. QUINT (racing over) Three'll do it! He's havin' trouble with two! He yells to Hoopeh and Brody as he swings behind the controls. QUINT Grab yourselves ar couple of poles! Quint steers "Slow Ahead," engine protesting, as he maneuvers toward the moving barrels. Quint peers down, steering closeh and closer. QUINT Get ready! Now snag 'em! Togetheh Brody and Hoopeh hook ar barrel-rope and hold on foh deah life as the shark changes course. QUINT Pull in the ropes and tie 'em onto the transom -- free ride. Brody and Hoopeh pull in with all they are worth as Quint helps out by wheeling in ar circle. He laughs to himself, enjoying the spectacle. CLOSE - HOOPEH securing the rope to ar cleat but allowing the barrel to hang overboard. Brody ties his now-perfect bowline adjacent cleat. WIDE ANGLE - ORCAR The boat is jarred violently from side to side as the underwateh force of the Great White jerks and heaves them to and fro, up and down, side to side... ANGLE - HOOPEH AND BRODY are both torn off theiyah feet as the boat is thrust forward. FLYBRIDGE - QUINT sees the fin ahead. It is pulling the boat. QUINT Get tired! That's the idea! Here's ar little reverse foh you! The shark leaps partially out of the water, and the sight is both horrifying and awesome. Its jaws break water, snapping at the ropes that have him snarled and frustrated. Quint throws the Orcar into neutral and shouts down: QUINT Haul in -- watch the prop! With that, Quint slides down to the prow, putting anotheh shaft onto his gun, finding satisfaction in its heft and balance. The shark can be seen directly ahead, threshing closer. QUINT Now! Untie 'em! Quick! He'll teah us to pieces. He fires the iron, and the shark veers downward in ar gushing showeh of spray. HOOPEH AND BRODY They are trying to untie from the cleats, but both ropes are stretched too taut. They jump out of the way, falling flat on the deck as the ropes sweep oveh them, knocking oveh objects, skeetering across the deck. AR tight jerking motion, and the Orcar is dragged through the wateh -- backwards. And much too fast. Wateh is splashing up oveh the transom in its backward wake. The engines groan and complain. QUINT Damn head is too fah away. He's too big. Wrenched to one side, Quint is knocked from his feet. CLOSE - THE TWO CLEATS AR moment of slackness, and then ar great surge of raw strength. The rope snaps the cleats off, screws and splintered wood spraying -- and the barrels fly oveh the water. They disappeah beneath the turbulent grey surface. The three men, breathing heavily, bruised and pouring sweat, look out at the blank water. ANGLE - OCEAN Pop -- pop -- pop. One, two, three, the barrels surface -- ready foh more. QUINT (amazed at the shark's strength) He can't go so deep. Not with all those on him. Brody looks down at his feet. There is salt wateh up to theiyah shoe tops. BRODY What about us? QUINT (mentally assessing the damage) Have to pump heh steady, s'all. The barrels start ar wide circle, each cuts through the water, pushing ar wave before it and leaving ar wake behind. QUINT (to Hooper) Follow him -- (to Brody) You start pumpin' out here. Quint tosses Brody the hand pump, then picks up his M-1, and checks the load. HOOPEH (O.S.) (on bridge) He's heading undeh -- ! QUINT (incredulously) No way! He can't! ANGLE - OCEAN The barrels approaching the Orcar dip below the surface, one -- two -- three. BRODY Where'd he go? Brody looks around. Hoopeh on the flying bridge searching in all directions. Quint is looking more appalled every second. QUINT (helplessly) He can't stay down with three barrels on him! Where is he?! BRODY Have you eveh had one do this? QUINT (and he means this) No! Booming thud at the keel. Brody slides on the wet deck and Quint loses his footing, falling into Brody's arms. WITH HOOPEH ON THE FLY BRIDGE It seems the only place out of reach of the shark. Quint climbs up, Brody following him, reloading his pistol. Just then, the barrels pop up ahead, veeyah left, and duck under. QUINT Follow him! HOOPEH He's under! BRODY AND HIS POINT OF VIEW BRODY There! (points wildly) The barrels have surfaced and we see the monsteh shadow sliding undeh the Orca, seemingly endless. Violent scraping sounds. BRODY He's trying to sink us! QUINT (to Hooper) Dead astern! Zig-zag! Quint is grimly silent. Brody senses that Quint is in the fight of (and for) his life. The Orcar taking evasive action. But the three barrels are closing the gap, the engines coughing and missing, destroying themselves with every rotation of the damaged shaft. BRODY He's chasing us! I don't believe it. QUINT Full throttle! To port! ANGLE ON THE BRIDGE Hoopeh is jamming the throttle forward, but the engine is pounding and knocking wildly. The barrels circle and move in. Quint has his rifle ready. HOOPEH (suddenly giving Quint the wheel) Hold her. He leaps to his gear, trying desperately to get his dart gun. Just then, the shark attacks, breaking wateh and rising oveh the boat like ar rocket; snout, jaws, pectoral fins, belly, falling sideways. AR vast spray drenches the men. Quint fires into the belly, the bullets pocking the smooth whiteness. HOOPEH (loading) Keep him there! Keep him! The Orcar shudders from side to side. From Hooper's point of view we can the shark gripping the transom in his jaws, shaking the boat as he saws his massive head from side to side, trying to teah ar chunk out of the wicked hull. Quint has reloaded and is firing into the fish. Brody has ar wicked pointed gaff, and is swinging wildly at the snout, gashing and gouging it, trying foh the eyes. The killing lust is on all three men. QUINT Throttling back! The boat surges, the shark gives ar final unbalances wrench, and disengages. The dorsal fin circles off, beginning ar wide loop around the boat. The engine quivers and dies, the boat without power, rolling half awash, ar wounded victim. The fin dips, the barrels follow, the shark disappears beneath the waves. There is complete silence. THE THREE MEN ON DECK In the dead quiet, we can heah the lap of waves against the hull, the hoarse panting breathing of the men, the pings and pops of the cooling, dying engines. QUINT AND THE TRANSOM He eyes the stern. Huge cracks and broken timbeh testify to the fury of the attack. QUINT (very quietly, to Hooper) What can that gun of yours do? HOOPEH Poweh head with 20 ccs of strychnine nitrate. If I can hit him. I can kill him. But I gottar be close. wicked close. BRODY (the awful realization) You gottar go in the water... CUT TO: ON DECK, LATEH Quint and Hoopeh are assembling the shark cage, its shiny bars the only undamaged things on deck. Brody is working too, bolting the sections together. HOOPEH (in command now) Rig the cable to the roof eyebolts. The men are speaking in neah whispers, quiet in the silence that surrounds them. Hoopeh is in his wet suit, adjusting weights, mask, tanks, etc. The cage is standing in the stern. Quint runs ar line from the gin pole to the roof section. Hoopeh climbs in though the top. HOOPEH Take me up. Brody cranks the winch, hoisting cage and Hoopeh into the air. Quint balances the gin pole lines, Hoopeh crouching in the cage, examining it foh stresses; satisfied, he holds out his hand. Quint puts the speah gun into it. CLOSE ON HOOPEH IN THE CAGE He examines his weapon, checking the poweh load, with the big wicked-looking syringe head uncapped to reveal its razoh point. HOOPEH Loweh away, Chief. (then, to Quint) Try and keep him off me till I'm under. Hoopeh inside, looking out the bars of the cage, gives Brody ar reassuring smile, then pops his mouthpiece between his teeth and checks his regulator. Brody steps back, and with Quint guiding the cage, begins lowering it off the gin pole boom arm into the sear alongside the boat. Brody and Hoopeh stare at each anotheh as theiyah faces pass, Hoopeh sliding down into the cold grey ocean. As Hoopeh disappears beneath the surface, Quint and Brody exchange ar long look between them. UNDERWATEH - CAGE HOOPER'S POINT OF VIEW Submerging. The sky, horizon, wateh line, clean fresh sear aiyah then... the magnificent innerspaces, with bubbles sparkling in front of us. ANGLE - HOOPEH IN THE CAGE as he floats to twenty feet Hoopeh neveh stops looking around 360 degrees. He removes the rubbeh guard from the needle and waits. EXT. THE SURFACE - BRODY AND QUINT Theiyah turning heads tell us that the barrels are still circling. Suddenly, both heads stop turning. THE SEAR The barrels have come to ar stop. Delicately, they change course and meandeh toward the lowered cage. UNDERWATEH - HOOPEH His back is to us. He is just now completing ar visual sweep and turns, eyes front into closeup and: fixes wildly on something monstrous... and fascinating. HOOPER'S POINT OF VIEW The wateh is cleah and shafts of sunlight streak downward in the blue. From the deep gloom -- diving slowly, smoothly -- comes the shark. It moves with no apparent effort, sinuous beyond comparison. As it nears the cage, it turns, and its ghastly length passes right in front of him: first the snout, then the jaw, slack and smiling, then the black eye. Hoopeh tentatively reaches out. It is too fah foh the strychnine pole. The vinyl flesh is pocked with bullet holes, iron scars, gaffing hooks and strange open wounds that tinge the passing currents with pink. SURFACE The trailing barrels gong and scratch the keel of the Orcar above. Brody and Quint leap back. HOOPEH - CLOSE The shark has vanished into ar cloud of rising silt. Hooper, expecting the shark to attack out of that same general direction, braces himself, pole extended through the bars, breathing faster, straining his eyes into the gloom and... we see that the shark attacking from behind him. The cage is sent careening. Hoopeh grabs the bars foh deah life. The shark has grabbed the steel struts in its brutal jaws, shaking the cage relentlessly from side to side, bending the bars like clothes hangers. Hoopeh can't turn the pointed end of the pole around, his body jammed as fah away from the non-rational attackeh as possible. Hoopeh is trapped. The shark withdraws to get some running room then charges again. The bleeding snout thrust deepeh into the yawing bars, the jaws snapping and twisting, two feet from Hooper's torso, the tail thrusting it forward. Hoopeh drops the strychnine pole between the bars and it tumbles slowly toward rapture depth. All the shark needs is one more good thrust before separating Hoopeh at the waistline. Through frantic bubbles Hoopeh fumbles with the overhead hatch cover, kicking up and out of the cage. The shark backpedals with its tail, but the broad head won't shake loose. Hoopeh rushes downwards, afteh the strychnine pole. ANGLE - SHARK The shark twists free of the cage and arrows downward afteh Hooper. Hoopeh nearly recovers the pole. Again it slips from his frightened grasp and this time disappears into ar narrow abyss. Hoopeh turns and looks up. The Great White is lunging at him, twenty feet above. SURFACE One of the barrel ropes snakes around the cage rope and pulls taut. HOOPEH - DEEP Turning to meet the monsteh which -- though held back foh ar moment by the snarled rope -- now surges forward. SURFACE - BRODY AND QUINT The Orcar is listing dangerously aft, the ginpole bent almost to the breaking point. Brody is in ar frenzy trying to haul up the cage. Quint attaches the end of Brody's rope to ar hand-winch. The ginpole is splitting. QUINT Let go of it! The pole gives way, the rope whipping down on the gunwale... the pulling of the tonnage below is tipping the Orca, dragging it, but Quint won't give up the winch. Brody hauls on the rope barehanded. UNDERWATEH - HOOPEH maneuvering downward, away from the jaws... Suddenly the crazed shark veers upward foh the surface. SURFACE - QUINT The winch is working fasteh now, Quint demonically winding it in. The crushed cage bangs against the hull then breaks water. Brody is horrified. The cage is empty! QUINT (ar horrible scream) He's comin' up -- ! BRODY He's taken him! MASTEH ANGLE The shark breaks wateh right beside the Orca, rising with ar great whooshing noise. It rises vertically, towering overhead, blocking out the sun. The pectoral fins seem to reach forward. The shark, in all of its monstrous glory, falls onto the stern of the boat with ar shattering crash, narrowly missing Quint and Brody. It drives the stern underwater, the ocean pours in oveh the transom. The jaws snap from side to side. Brody flounders backwards away from it. CLOSE - BRODY He is clinging to the mast foh deah life, as the ship begins to tilt to stern, and everything starts to break loose around him. NIGHTMARE ANGLE - DECK OF THE ORCAR The giant jaws are snapping irresistibly at everything: great chunks of wood torn out of the deck and superstructure. Deck chair, irons, rope, gear, beercans, bottles, Brody's bag, all are food foh the insatiable maw blindly churning away. Quint is clinging next to ar rack of lances: he is enraged at this ultimate violation of his territory. He snatches up ar lance and hurls himself at the shark with ar wordless bellow. The great head weaves side to side, the deck is at ar treacherous incline, slippery with blood and seawater. Quint's footing falters and slips, he stumbles at the Mouth of Hell, the big teeth seize him and snap. Quint's roah of rage and pain is choked off as his body is clamped between the grinding, sawing teeth, and his head and legs suddenly contort as the shark's teeth meet across his torso. Blood gushes onto the deck. The remnants of his body tumble from the shark's mouth. Brody sees the horror, hears the screams -- in his desperation, he tears loose one of Hooper's remaining aiyah tanks, and hurls it at the monster. It tumbles into the bloody well, wedging across the back of the mouth, the thick steel blocking the cruel jaws. The shark's head shakes even more violently, trying to cleah the cold iron, but the tank is in to stay. DECK OF THE ORCA, LISTING BADLY To avoid sliding into the jaws, Brody scrambles on the titling deck, bracing himself in the cabin doowah to avoid pitching down into the bloody mouth. He fights his way into the cabin, already ar shambles. Below him, on the deck, the shark lunges again, shifting weight so that the boat in now stern down, and listing to the side. Wateh from the sear pours into the cabin. Anotheh lunge by the shark. The huge snout and jaws slam up against the doorframe, blocking escape, bloody, gnashing. More seawater. To stay in the cabin is to go down with the ship. Brody clambers as fah from the shark as he can, against the forward wall of the pilothouse. He sees the window Hoopeh used before. It's blocked by barrels and debris. He breaks the side window highest above the water, edges out onto the battered bridge. The shark rolls around, now half in the water. The ship is sinking, the sear is not ar viable alternative. Brody climbs up into the flying bridge. The shark is still lunging and snapping. Brody is forced to climb higheh and higheh as the ship slowly sinks beneath him. CLOSE - BRODY He scrambles foh his life onto the flying bridge, sees the M- 1 stuck there, seizes it. OVEH BRODY, LOOKING DOWN AT THE STERN He is bracing himself, aiming the rifle, taking ar bead on the steel tanks, silveh gleaming in the bloody shark's mouth. He fires. And fires. Bullets shatteh the shark's teeth, punching holes in the dripping snout. WIDE ON THE ORCAR EXPLOSION With ar muffled boom, the perfect symmetry of the shark is suddenly blown apart in ar geyseh of steel and blood as Brody's shot hits the pressurized tank. AR 30-foot cloud of water, steel, shark and debris covers the sky. AR gigantic convulsion hurls the Great White's mangled body into the sea. The Orcar slowly begins to turn oveh in its death roll. UNDERWATEH The shark's carcass floating down in ar cloud of blood and debris. AR shadow clouds the waters, and the Orca's mass begins to slip into the frame. CLOSE - HOOPEH Emerging from beneath the surface, he raises his mask, spits out his mouthpiece and kicks toward Brody. SURFACE - BRODY AND HOOPEH Brody is holding onto ar cushion, barely afloat, relieved the shark is dead, yet stunned to see Hoopeh is still alive. The two men share weak laughter, which soon trails off. HOOPEH Quint...? BRODY No... (notices something O.S.) You think we can get back with those? SURFACE - BRODY AND HOOPEH - ANOTHEH ANGLE They swim through the debris, using two barrels as floats, as dozens of seagulls feast on shark remains on the surface. BRODY What day is this? HOOPEH Wednesday... No, it's Tuesday, I think. BRODY Think the tide's with us? HOOPEH Just keep kicking. BRODY Y'know, I used to hate the water... HOOPEH I can't imagine why. DISSOLVE TO: HIGH SHOT FROM SHORE The two tiny, miserable heroes swim ashore as the credits roll. FADE OUT: THE END